Cape Town – A mother whose child died in the Knysna fire on Wednesday has also succumbed to her injuries. The woman died in the Tygerberg Hospital on Sunday. The Western Cape Disaster Management Centre said conditions in the Eden District remained "favourable" and that all fires in the George area had been contained. There are more than 1 100 firefighters currently battling blazes in the Southern Cape. "The WCDMC regrets to confirm a seventh fatality in the Eden region as a result of the fires in the region," James Styan, spokesperson for Local Government MEC Anton Bredell, said. "The mother of the three-year-old child who was confirmed dead on Wednesday in Welbedacht, died last night (Saturday) in Tygerberg Hospital. "The total number of fatalities for the Eden region, as confirmed by the SAPS is now seven. This number includes one firefighter." In the Eden District Municipality, firefighters held back the flames to protect the village of Rheenendal and Wit Lokasie settlement. "Both areas were under threat during yesterday’s gale-force winds," Styan said. "Brenton-on-Sea was severely affected yesterday, with several more houses damaged." Four SANDF Oryx helicopters and six Working on Fire helicopters continued water-bombing the area on Sunday. Styan also issued the following update: Knysna: · 1 106 firefighters are currently in the area. · All fires are contained at the North side of Sedgefield (Barrington, Karatara and Elandskraal as well as in the North side of Knysna (Wit Lokasie, Concordia and Nekkies). · Buffalo Bay: Fire commanders confirmed that no losses had been suffered in Buffalo Bay, and some fires yesterday were deliberate “back-burns” to protect the town from runaway flames. · There are a few new hotspots in Knysna which are contained. The fire in Brackenhill is contained and MTO are responding. · An additional six houses were burnt down in Knysna since yesterday, 10 June 2017. · Knysna Municipality has developed a questionnaire, available on the www.surveymonkey.com website, where affected residents can report their damage incurred and related needs. Bitou: · Approximately fifty structures were burnt down, however no formal assessment has been done to confirm this. · It was reported that fires flared up in Kranshoek and Kranbos but are now under control. George: All the fires in George have been contained. Fortunately, the injuries to five fire-fighters reported yesterday have been confirmed as minor. "Our thoughts are with our Eastern Cape colleagues who are currently also dealing with devastating fires in their area," Styan said. Weather Update "The South African Weather Services issued the following weather predictions for the Southern Coastal areas: Rain (30%) is expected for Sunday, Monday and Thursday and no rain expected for Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday. The wind will be abating for the next couple of days, however, it is predicated to pick up again on Thursday with winds between 60 and 70 km/h."  