Cape Town – Aid continued to stream in for the victims of the #KnysnaFire as the police moved to quash fake news regarding the rumoured arrest of arsonists. "Various fake news being spread on social media is posting a huge threat on efforts to relieve and successfully counter the situation caused by the devastating fires in Knysna," Southern Cape police said on Saturday.  "Rumours and fake news that is currently doing the rounds that two people with petrol cans had been arrested in connection with the fires in George and surroundings, are utterly false and unfounded. No arrests in this regard has been made yet. This same voice note alleges involvement of the two 'suspects' in the devastating fires from Knysna to Port Elizabeth. This is also not true. "Further rumours indicating the hijacking of delivery trucks who delivers humanitarian relieve packages to Knysna is also untrue. "The validity of all these rumors has been verified and found to be fake news. We appeal on social media operators to revert from this practice as it creates further havoc and chaos in an situation where resources are already stretched to its limits. "We have increased visibility on the main and exit routes to and from Knysna by redirecting SAPS and traffic, both local and provincial officials en-route to ensure safety of all road users and the public in general."  The Eden District municipality also issued a statement saying no fresh fires had been reported. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "In the Knysna area, no new fires were reported and no evacuations took place during the night," the statement read. "All national and municipal roads are open. "On the previously reported fires, a few flare ups were received in and around Knysna. The fire near Sedgefield that burned towards Buffalo Bay still has an active fire line, but it is currently under control and holds no threat. Today, all available aerial resources will be focusing on this line, and they will attempt to extinguish it completely. "Last night, the fire at Brackenhill jumped the road, but has been brought under control and is now contained. Fire teams from MTO are damping it down, and mopping up operations will commence shortly. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "In the Bitou area, the situation has cooled down; however, an extensive area still needs to be damped down. Access to over grown areas is being cleared by machinery in order to reach deep seated smouldering fire lines. The 802 Fixed Wing Bomber from WOF has been deployed, to assist with wet lines at the Kransbos plantation fire, near Uplands. "In the George area, all fires are contained, however flare ups were observed at the Hoekwil/Serpentine Heights and Geelhoutboom fires. Firefighting crews are currently busy with operations in order to contain these fires. "Mossel Bay Fire and Rescue are currently busy with firefighting operations in the Friemersheim area," it read. The Hetties Bay Lions Club also pledged a donation of R200 000 to the relief efforts and a delegation from Cape Town, led by Merriman Lions member Maisie Fisher, was also set to travel to the Southern Cape this week. Cape Argus * Pick n Pay will gather and deliver any online purchases made on their website in aid of Knysna Fire Relief. Click here for more info.