No shift is the same but attending to many call-outs during a 12-hour shift is certain. While navigating through traffic on a normal day is challenging, the heavy rain, wind and cold had a huge impact on their work during the two-day cold front.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. While a number of people decided to stay home on Wednesday, Emergency Medical Services paramedics Sandra Oliver and her partner Lee Jordaan, braved the storm to start their 12-hour shift at 6am. “I think I was quite anxious because we heard about the storm,” while not knowing what to expect for the rest of the day, she said. "On my way to work there were a lot of trees and branches. "Already we knew what we were going to get for the day.” The day had unforeseen challenges, she said. She said one of the calls that really struck a nerve for her was the one of a homeless man who had been lying in the street for about two days. “We had to pick him up. Just to get to him was a problem because on the one road there was a tree that fell down and the road was closed and we had to reroute again. There was also another tree in the road. "Because of these trees it took us a little bit longer to get to the patient because it was a priority.” When they eventually reached the man, he was in a bad condition, said Oliver. “He was totally wet and he had no food.” They loaded him into the ambulance and warmed him up and drove him to the nearest day hospital. They also helped a number of people who had issues with their chests because of the weather being inclement and the wind that was blowing. But through it all they managed to make it through the storm. “On our shift there was a lot of teamwork, but it wasn’t easy. "There were times where I could feel like the ambulance was going to fall over any minute because of the wind being that strong. Visibility was also just as bad. At times it would rain that hard that you couldn’t even see. We made the best of the day through the rain and through the storm,” said Oliver. EMS spokesman Robert Daniels concurred that the weather posed challenges for paramedics. He said there was a high volume of motor vehicle crashes that paramedics attended to, while locating patients in informal settlements was also a major challenge.