THE provincial government has allocated R75 million to assist with rebuilding Knysna after the fires in the town and surrounding areas last week.Premier Helen Zille said the province s budget had been re-prioritised to assist Knysna. Now that the fires are under control and mop-up operations are in full swing, authorities have started counting the costs.Knysna fire chief Clinton Manual said: Until late this week there were still many areas deemed unsafe, therefore we could not send in teams to assess the scale of the damage. Garden Route towns Knysna and Plettenberg Bay were plunged into chaos when about 30 fires raged through the region, burning through more than 20 000 ha. About 700 homes were destroyed and about 5000 residents fled. Seven residents died. Roads were closed and there was a sporadic loss of telecommunications and electricity.Zille said 450 houses burnt down in Knysna - 38 RDP houses and 150 shacks.She said aid for the poor would be a priority. In every fire we fix the water, we fix electricity, we give people starter packs to rebuild their homes. This fire in Knysna was the biggest fire we ever had to fight. It took the biggest fighting force from across the country to fight. You must see the devastation there to understand how many services we have got to fix and how much infrastructure we have to fix. People are living in the halls and most of the houses we are obviously not rebuilding, but we have to rebuild the infrastructure. She said a number of people lost their jobs because of the guest houses that burnt down.To rebuild the economy in Knysna, Zille is appealing to people to support the Pick * Pay Knysna Oyster Festival next month. We are hoping everyone will still come to the oyster festival because that is the best way to build up the economy again in Knysna. There are still 4 500 beds that are fine, 2 500 were burnt out, but there are still other places to stay. The hotels are still nice. Municipal spokesman Fran Kirsten said now that the fires had been contained and mop-up operations were under way, teams had started going from property to property to gauge the damage.She said SANParks had been instructed to assist with this process.She added that it was estimated&nbsp;more than 440 properties had been gutted in the epicentre of the disaster. It is believed a further 200 informal structures had been destroyed and about 30 homes in Plettenberg Bay. Kirsten said there was no timeline for the process to be completed.Meanwhile, the municipality had started registering those affected. This would be anyone who suffered any form of damage. Kirsten said residents were being asked to complete a survey and include their losses. The survey is available on the muncipality s website and social media pages and has been available at the various relief drop-off points. Once the SANParks teams have completed their assessment, we will cross reference their data with ours and we will then not only have a clear picture of the scale of the damage, but also know exactly what the needs of each resident are. Manual said from a firefighting perspective, they too had started counting the costs of what has been dubbed the biggest disaster rescue operation in South African history . The costs are expected to be vast as it will include anything from accommodation for the firefighters who have come from across the country to assist to fuel costs of the vehicles and the aircraft, not to mention the manpower. He said the bill was expected to be millions of rands.James-Brent Styan, spokesperson for MEC Anton Bredel, agreed the Knysna fire was the biggest the country had experienced.He said about 10000 people had been evacuated.There had been severe damage to communication, electricity, water and sewage, roads and schools and the economic engine of the town.Meanwhile, the average dam levels across the province are at 20%, which he said was still bad. The situation remains unchanged, said Styan.Knysna mayor Eleanore Bouw-Spies said beside the loss of houses, there had been major damage to infrastructure and businesses.