Lucas, 24, was inspired to enter after watching the first season of the show, despite not having sung for large crowds and suffering from stage fright. Weekend Argus spoke to the contestant between rehearsals this week. Five weeks ago, Lucas graduated from UCT in economics and politics and is now willing to put a promising career in the corporate world on hold while he pursues his love for music. His involvement with The Voice began when his friends persuaded him to audition for the second season. “For many years, I had been avoiding it, as much as I wanted to (perform),” he said.I have been watching The Voice for many years and when I heard it was coming to South Africa for the first season I was going to go, but I chickened out, like I always do. After watching the 
season my friends sort of forced me to go to the auditions for the second one, which I did.” Lucas’s performance of House of the Rising Sun resulted in all four coaches pressing their buzzers. The singer chose Kahn Morbee to be his coach. “The whole atmosphere of the show is so different, not like other talent shows. Being on the show is quite encouraging. “The auditions happened and I didn’t think I’ll get this far. “I didn’t really 
have any sort of singing (experience) before The 
Voice. I had been suffering from stage fright for a number of years. I always wanted to perform, but I couldn’t physically do it.” Lucas said one of the highlights of the experience had been was getting to work with some top producers and music directors in the country. “Getting to work with Kahn really brings out the best in you. Every week you get to grow in leaps and bounds from somebody who couldn’t even stand on a stage before to looking forward to being on the show every Sunday, I think that’s one of the best things for me. “It’s still scary getting on stage. I get a bit nervous, but just even seeing how far I have come I’m impressed with myself because previously when I would perform I would black out and would not remember the performance.” Lucas said he had received overwhelming support from home and the people in his community. “These opportunities don’t really show themselves to us there and it’s an honour when kids tell me these dreams are possible.” Lucas, who has written more than 100 songs, said if he did not win there was a chance he would continue with his career by collaborating with fellow contestants and making his dream a reality. *  Lucas will perform Prince’s Purple Rain today at 5.30pm on M-Net 101. To vote for Lucas via SMS text 01 to 33692 or via Wechat add the ID mnettv.