Cape Town - &nbsp;Family of the slain DA ward councillor Xolile Gwangxu, 41, have lashed out at social media users after news of their loved one s murder was shared within hours of the incident.&nbsp;Gwangxu was shot in front of the Philippi East Community Hall, on Wednesday night, following after a party constituency meeting.&nbsp;His cousin James Ndabeni said family learnt of the murder on social media.&nbsp; Most of us saw it on Facebook. We were shocked and when we tried to call him his phone was off. We were not given time to first share the news with the family. It has just worsened the pain because death is not something nice, especially for those affected, said Ndabeni.&nbsp;Gwangxu leaves his wife and three children, aged 2 to 16.&nbsp;Ndabeni said the deceased s 10 year-old daughter, who had been visiting from the Eastern Cape for school holidays, was not doing well.&nbsp; She arrived on Tuesday and the last time she spoke to her father was when he had left for the meeting promising to return. We are worried she is not eating and has been crying all night. This is a tragedy considering that she was hoping to spend more time with her father, said Ndabeni.&nbsp;The family said the 41-year-old politician had no enemies.&nbsp; We often hear about councillors being killed in KwaZulu Natal. We were never expecting it to happen here and not one of our own. Today we bear the brunt of it, said the cousin.&nbsp;Reminiscing on his brother s life Zongezile Gwangxu said the deceased shared a huge interest in music.&nbsp; Growing up back home used to be the choir master in high school.&nbsp; My brother was outspoken, approachable and to me his was a mother and father. He was very wise and was a good problem solver. He often listened to all problems and was jokey too, he said.&nbsp;On Thursday the DA provincial leadership visited the Gwangxu home.&nbsp;Acting leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said: The DA is deeply saddened and shocked by the fatal shooting.&nbsp; Councillor Gwangxu, a long-standing DA member, was a well-known and respected leader in the area he served, and he did so with honourable commitment and determination. &nbsp;Mayor Patricia de Lille announced a reward of R50 000 for information leading to an arrest and conviction.[email&#160;protected] Cape Argus