Cape Town - There&nbsp;seems to be no clear way forward to addressing the scourge of child murders in the province, with NGO s calling for a commission of inquiry and not the establishment of a task team, as suggested by Premier Helen Zille. NGO s and children s rights organisations have called for the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the more than 20 child murders in the Western Cape, but the premier has suggested that a task team study the six most recent cases instead.&nbsp; Her spokesperson Michael Mpofu said the task team that would investigate the cases would comprise stakeholders from provincial government, police and Non-Government Organisation (NGO) partners. The task team would be easier to establish, within a short period of time, and would be able to conduct its work swiftly. The outcome of the probe into a sample of cases would possibly reveal the common denominators in incidents of violence against children. This will form a basis for police, government and the NGOs to work with in formulating solutions to address the crisis, said Mpofu.&nbsp; Mpofu said the provincial government is in the process of finalising a policy to guide the development of legislation for the appointment of a Children s Commissioner.&nbsp; It is important to note that a Commissioner cannot replace the role to be played by the various stakeholders in the development of our children. This includes parents, guardians, government schools, teachers, social workers, health care, the police, and other bodies, he said.&nbsp; Mpofu said at a meeting last month the NGOs had agreed to consult with their partners on the proposal but did not return with a response. Trauma Centre for Survivors of Violence and Torture executive director Valdi van Reenen-le Roux said: A &nbsp;research project won t do it for us. Van Reenen-le Roux said they would continue lobbying for a commission of inquiry and have already gained close to 3 000 signatures on both their online and printed petitions. We want a commission of inquiry to keep record and also provide a voice to the voiceless, she said. The Community Chest pledged its support for the establishment of a commission of inquiry. At the weekend the organisation hosted a dialogue where around 60 organisations discussed the scourge of crime &nbsp;against the province s children. Chief executive Lorenzo Davids said: We have formed a group of about 20 people from various sectors including police.&nbsp;This working group will bring in key stakeholders and then we will begin a process of looking into why these killings and abuse are happening. It is not a commission of inquiry. [email&#160;protected] Cape Argus