WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd, which is the commercial arm of the WP Rugby Union, is expected to face a Section 417 inquiry on August 24. An inquiry into the affairs of a bankrupt company can trace a company’s missing assets, or reveal misconduct by its directors. In December, WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd successfully applied to the Western Cape High Court to be liquidated. Its financial situation is set to come under pressure as investors Remgro decided to pull R40m , and  advertising partner Aerios launched a damages claim of R271m . Aerios had opposed the liquidation application by WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd. The high court ruled that the application had been in the best interests of its creditors. Aerios has renewed its fight, and this time through the Section 417 inquiry, which could shed light on possible misconduct, negligence or impropriety with regards to the liquidation. Aerios chief executive Costas Constantinou said the inquiry could help trace what he claims are  WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd’s missing assets or “even reveal misconduct by the company’s directors”. “I owe it to myself, my company, the Western Province rugby supporters and the people of South Africa to uncover the truth. I will leave no stone unturned, no matter how long it takes,” he said. Constantinou said when Aerios first opposed the liquidation of WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd it had relied on public information, but the high court ruled that the allegations were unsubstantiated. In a Section 417 inquiry, witnesses are compelled to answer all the questions. Constantinou said that subpoenas had already been served on WP Rugby management, which could include former chief executive Rob Wagner, his successor, Paul Zacks, and the president of the WP Rugby Football Union, Thelo Wakefield. Further subpoenas might follow depending on the evidence that emerges during the inquiry, in two weeks’ time. A valuation of WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd’s assets by auditors PwC, initiated by Remgro and WP Rugby, found its assets to be worth R8.5m. Constantinou said intangible assets, including sponsorship deals, player contracts, and advertising contracts, were not included in the valuation. He said Aerios’s valuation valued WP Rugby's (Pty) Ltd's assets - including intangible - at over R150m. Constantinou has taken a swipe at Remgro's association with WP Rugby, saying that “a company highly regarded for its business acumen, should have known that it was making terrible investments”, but it continued with loans worth millions. He said the only lucrative assets that WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd had were intangible, including commercial rights, and its brand. Constantinou said the situation could have presented Remgro with an opportunity to convert equity into shares, but this did not work out. Remgro chief executive officer Jannie Durand said the company had hoped to continue its association with WP Rugby (Pty) Ltd after its liquidation by investing in the new commercial arm of WP Rugby Football Union - provided the parties could agree on terms that would leave Remgro in no worse position than before. “Despite our best efforts, the parties were unable to meet the agreed minimum requirements to make the deal viable," Durand said. “As a Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed company with pension funds and collective investments as significant investors, Remgro would not be able to justify going ahead with this investment under these circumstances." Constantinou said there was more to the situation than meets the eye: “Durand is clearly trying to get as far away as possible from what will be uncovered in the inquiry. “I also believe Durand didn’t anticipate that we would go to these lengths to uncover the truth." Durand said Remgro would not distance itself from the inquiry and would co-operate in all respects. “Our decision not to pursue an investment opportunity was informed by changes in the professional rugby environment and the regulations governing it,” he said. Durand would not be drawn into further allegations. Meanwhile, SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux said there was “an appetite among business to be involved in rugby and rugby wants and values their involvement", but “we have to agree there are certain national expectations of the sport that are important to our future and that can’t be put to one side”. Wakefield would not comment, saying the matter was “sub judice”. Weekend Argus