With the MTV Base VJ Search underway, one of the talented four South Africans life will change forever when they become the next face and presenter of MTV Base. But first, they have to make it pass a variety of challenges that test their limits and get the nod from some of the toughest panel of judges in the industry, Luthando “Lootlove” Shosha, Thomas Gumede and Nomalanga Shozi. We caught up with Shozi to find out what it takes to get to the finals. You’re a first time judge, how does it feel to be given this kind of responsibility?
Massive! It first seemed like a mammoth task to be asked to judge other hopefuls when I, myself, am still so young in the game.  But ultimately, I know exactly what to look for, so, I feel really honoured to be part of such an skhokho huge campaign/show. Tell us more about your journey around the country looking for the next face and presenter of MTV Base?
Fun, exciting, emotional, explosive and inspiring. The journey started in Johannesburg, went to CPT and then PE. We still have loads to do in terms of challenges for the contestants, so it's not over yet!
 
It’s gutsy to be on a competition like this, would you ever do it? 
Lol! You need to have a lot of guts to be a presenter in general. I would describe the competition as challenging but rewarding. Even those who didn't make it had the opportunity to meet some really important people in the industry and get really important and constructive feedback . All in all, I'd do this competition in a heartbeat if I were also seeking the opportunity. How has the judging process been thus far? 
Tough! The contestants have mega talent and we as judges have really high standards, so we argue a lot. It's fun, though, because it means the winner will really be something special. How is working with Luthando and Thomas on the show?
Luthando is a thugged out darling and Thomas is a clown! They are the best to work with because their energy is welcoming. I love the experiences I have with them. Thomas can be so funny at times and that makes this whole thing a lot less pressured. Luthando is also very supportive, I think on this show, people will see how sweet she is. Beautiful mix of personalities on the judging panel! What are you looking for in contestants and how are they at taking critic? 
I'm looking for someone refreshing. Talent and skill can always be groomed.  For now, I just want someone with That Thing, someone whose style of presenting is unique, but still very much MTV Base. Some contestants catch feelings, some actually listen when we give them critique, so it's that situation. What can we expect to see in upcoming episodes of the VJ Search? 
Hehehe. Some crazy challenges, some emotional moments and some explosive talent. When I say these kids are willing to do whatever it takes to win, I mean it! You recently got your big break on MTV Base, what advice will you give to the eventual winner about the industry? 
Be you.  Do you. Do not conform. Your light is your magic, protect it. The industry will swallow you if you're not grounded. How are you handling the industry? 
It's a jungle, but I believe in putting your head down and doing the work. The recognition and hype will come and go, but your truth will come from how honestly you do your work. Right now, I'm keen to do more and more, after all this is my dream also. * Catch Nomalanga on the show every Wednesday on MTV Base (DStv Channel 322) at 9pm. 