National newspaper China Daily reported China's billionaires and successful entrepreneurs were embracing the home-grown martial art, characterised by rhythmical circular movements. The ancient art is believed to help practitioners balance positive and negative inner energies. That philosophy is now being applied in business to boost profits. China's mega-rich and powerful believe the merits of the gentle exercise boosts not only personal well-being but company profits and transforms corporate cultures. It certainly seems to be working for Alibaba founder Jack Ma. He was named the richest person in Asia a month ago. He and the other Ma - Ma Huaten the chairman of IT company Tencent Holdings - are competing for the title of China's richest man. The Alibaba chairperson's fat bank account  has ballooned to an estimated $41.8 billion, according to Bloomberg. Alibaba is the largest e-commerce company in China. Ma has been practising tai chi for over three decades and has made it part of Alibaba’s work culture, offering tai chi workshops as part of staff training. Another Chinese billionaire Guo Guangchang, president of Fosun Group, told the newspaper the practice taught faster reactions, a crucial skill in investing and staying ahead of the market. A major plus, he joked, was the absence of the bulky equipment required in golf. In 2011, at an event on Wall Street, Guo pitched tai chi to entrepreneurs. Ever since, he has been performing tai chi at the company's annual dinner in New York. Former US president Barack Obama, in one of his State of the Union address, raved about tai chi, calling it one of the best aerobic exercises in the world. Elite tai chi clubs for the rich are en vogue in China. At these clubs, the moneyed class, in white silk garb, practise the slow motions at private parks. In Beijing parks and open spaces, senior citizens and children practise tai chi as a morning or evening ritual. Besides, the martial art is seen as a potential revenue booster for the tourism industry, the newspaper reported. Since the 2008 Beijing Olympics, various websites and tour companies have been offering explorers of foreign cultures and backpackers alike an opportunity to take lessons at ancient or historical sites, sometimes at exorbitant fees. Tai chi presents a contrast to other combat sports, such as kick boxing, kung fu and muaythai, which require speed and strength. Although the exercise was designed for self-defence, tai chi’s modern practitioners feel it can help reduce stress and calm the mind. Ma was quoted in another interview saying its philosophy of balancing inner energies was similar to managing a company. He said he had developed leadership abilities from Taoism, management skills from Confucianism and inspiration to live a normal life from Buddhism. “And tai chi is what combines all separate parts together." China Daily reported tai chi itself had become “an intellectual property” and had spawned many businesses, products and services. Famous kung fu actor Li Lianjie, known in Hollywood as Jet Li, and Alibaba’s Ma jointly founded Taiji Zen International Culture Co by investing $7.3 million. Taiji Zen develops tai chi-related cultural products and services. The company set up a cultural institute four years ago which provides martial art tutorials and 18-day courses in philosophy for entrepreneurs that can cost up to 99 800 yuan (R202 000) Chinese martial arts are  popular across the world in countries such as the UK, Australia, Japan, the US and Europe. In Cape Town, a number of trendy spots offer eastern remedies, from traditional Chinese medicine to tai chi. One website even referred to the exercise as a “medical meditation”. Jin Canrong, a professor and associate dean with the School of International Studies at Renmin University of China, delivered a lecture on the country's international relations. He too presented the martial art as the answer to superpowers China and America flexing their might. “In tai chi, with the US we use your own power to defeat you." Well, if the martial art is indeed so powerful, it is recommended that South Africa's members of Parliament  take it up, to build courage, master common sense and use all of No.1’s dubious energy to oust him. *  Melanie Peters is the Live Editor of  Weekend Argus. She is on a 10-month scholarship with the China Africa Press Centre. Instagram: mels_chinese_takeout