Her comment comes after Maimane tabled a motion for Parliament to be dissolved shortly after the latest motion of no confidence in President Jacob Zuma was defeated in Parliament this week. Despite the outcome of that vote, the DA says Zuma no longer enjoys the support of the majority of people and that South Africans should be given the opportunity to go the polls. The only way to speed this up is to dissolve Parliament and not wait until the next general election, it says. But Mbete questioned the DA’s understanding of Parliament’s constitution, saying  it was constituted by the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC), a body set up in terms of the constitution. “It’s not constituted on the basis of any singular political party. It is managed by the IEC which constantly watches what goes on there. “So Maimane can only call for Parliament to be dissolved in his dreams,” Mbete said. The DA’s call took other opposition political parties in the National Assembly by surprise and they have not supported it. Mbete also lashed out at those who questioned her decision regarding the secret ballot on the motion of no confidence in Zuma. “Anyone who raised such a view doesn’t have respect for my capabilities as a woman leader to take tough decisions. I exercised the power and prerogative bestowed on me by the constitution and some people have a problem with that? “I find that line of thinking quite disgusting,” Mbete said. The decision to allow for the secret ballot was also based on respect for varying perspectives, she said. “Political parties represent society and I felt that we needed to hear them even though some people might not agree with their views. Some people have shifted away on a perception that we don’t care and it has been imperative to reach out to them,  to connect with them again,” she said. Although the ANC, which was her political home, was now characterised by factions and disagreements from within, it would eventually overcome the challenges, Mbete said. “It is important that we resolve the issues. If you look at the National Assembly now, most of the opposition parties represented were once ANC members and this cannot be left to continue without being properly addressed. “I would like to see an ANC that’s healed and united. We are bruised and some of the bruises that we inflict on one another could easily be dealt with. We need to be tolerant and work together regardless of which rank of leadership we serve in. “There are mistakes we have done, but also they have presented us with lessons which we could turn into opportuni-
ties,” she said.