As accommodation partnering service Airbnb continues to grow, women are opening up their homes to make some cash. During this Women’s Month, two female Airbnb hosts spoke to Weekend Argus about tips, tricks and how women can become successful hosts on the platform. Fadziso Choto and Elizabeth Tellmann are Airbnb hosts with listings in the southern suburbs. They said most guests like coming to the area because of its proximity to the CBD and the airport. Tellmann said that she and her husband initially debated whether they wanted to share their space but the experience had been enjoyable. “It’s been so cool, we’ve met a lot of people,” said Tellmann. Choto on the other hand had less interaction with her guests because she rents out an entire apartment and stays elsewhere. “I meet them upon arrival and then maybe when they leave.” Tellmann said the process to becoming a host  was simple: once you have created your profile and uploaded some pictures of the space you would be good to go. Both agreed that having good pictures on your profile was key to attracting visitors. The ladies said it was important to ensure that guests had as much information as possible about where they were staying and what they could do in the area. “Communication is key, telling the guests what to expect and not to expect is important. We have pets so that’s why we’re not pet friendly or child friendly and it’s important guests know that,” said Tellman. “The guests are mostly independent and find their own way around. We’ve found that a lot of times we’ll end up sitting and chatting during the night,” she says adding: “You make friends with them.” Choto added that giving guests some basic house rules upon arrival was always a good thing. Tellmann said when guests arrive she always gives them a key, a list with general rules and household items and the Wifi password. Both agreed that most guests stay for three to four nights. A  study released by Airbnb this year showed that last year women hosts typically annually earned R30910 from hosting in South Africa. Airbnb gives the host full control over pricing so they can ensure they cover all the expenses that go with hosting a guest. Tellmann and Choto said this income generally went back into the improvement of the property and helped to supplement their lifestyles. Every three months Airbnb evaluates hosts by looking at their reviews from guests. The positive comments and high ratings are taken into account and the host may be assigned super host status. Tellmann has reached super host status and as such is listed higher up in search results for a specific area. Super hosts are able to attract more guests because of their prominence. The ladies also suggested having a check list of all the items in a  room or apartment. This makes it easier to turn around the room for the next guest by checking against the list to ensure all  items are in the room and that toiletries are replaced. For those women thinking about listing their own space on Airbnb the ladies could not be more encouraging. “It’s such a great experience,” said Choto while Tellmann added: “It opens your mind to other worlds and  cultures and you get to experience new people.”