IN East Africa there is a flower named yesterday, today and tomorrow . Like the work of journalists, the news of today will become the history of tomorrow.This comparison was drawn by the President of China Public Diplomacy Association Zhaoxing Li during his address at the joint opening of two media programmes - the China Africa Press Centre and the China South Asia, South East Asian Press Centre - in Beijing this week.Ambassadors and officials from a number of embassies attended the ceremony.Li worked in Africa for seven years and visited 53 of the continent s countries. He mentioned China s strong ties with Africa and how he would never forget the continent s support in China s return to the UN. In 1971, 26 African countries voted for China s return to the UN. So China and Africa are friends forever. He encouraged the journalists to make the most of their stay in China and to gain a better understanding of the country. I hope you will make contribution to our friendship and co-operation. There are 29 journalists from various African countries, from Mauritania to Mauritius and South Africa to Sudan. And 15 journalists from Asia.The African programme, which has been running for four years, has nearly tripled in its number of fellows since its inception, from 10 to 29 journalists.The programme promotes exchange and co-operation between Chinese and African media. Its goal is to help journalists better understand China by learning first hand about the country and its people.The journalists will attend major international events hosted in the country such as the 9th Brics Summit later this year, think tanks, academic institutions as well as companies.On behalf of the journalists participating in the programme, Nigerian journalist Bukola Ogunsina thanked the Chinese government for this opportunity. It is an honour and a privilege, and an opportunity of a lifetime to gain insight and build memories in China. The group, who arrived in Beijing last week, have already begun lectures at Renmin University of China.She said at one of these lectures, Professor Wang Yiwei of Renmin University s School of International Studies mentioned China was complex. Indeed it is what makes it intriguing. We are eager to know...report on the true China...to learn what makes China, China. She said this includes the country s political, cultural and social aspects. We will learn, and from the facts we will gather the truth. We will indeed pay attention. When we return to our countries, we will share our knowledge with our people, for a better understanding of China. For the strengthening of multilateral ties and co-operation, not just the government of our countries and China, but our people and your people. Beijing has been increasing China s state-owned media presence around the world, not least in Africa.According to African Arguments in 2009 China allocated US$7 billion to compete with the likes of the BBC, CNN and Al Jazeera. CCTV Africa s programmes provide up-to-date coverage on a wide range of issues; stories from wire service Xinhua are published in national newspapers across the continent; China Daily Africa runs off the press once a week; and China Radio International broadcasts on the African airwaves. Melanie Peters is the Live Editor of Weekend Argus. She is on a 10-month scholarship with the China Africa Press Centre.