Cape Town - He s only five weeks old, but he carries himself as if he owns the world.As I watched this cocky, confident character approach me, I couldn t help thinking how tragically deluded he was.He, after all, is an orphan rhino - and the tragedy is that he is also in the firing line, or will be once he is old enough to sport a horn large enough to attract the brutal attention of poachers.A new rhino calf at Aquila Private Game Reserve. The calf arrived on Sunday morning after travelling all the way from Mpumalanga. The calf s mother died of an infection and when he was found he was trying to feed. &nbsp;&nbsp; But then again, this 70kg orphan is luckier than most others his age - as he is destined for an upbringing at a high-security orphanage which opens soon in the Western Cape. He arrived at the temporary orphanage on Sunday from Mpumalanga. He was born on a farm and was found still suckling on his mother who had died from an infection during the night. But this orphaned rhino is not the first to be cared for by staff at Aquila Private Game Reserve.At the end of 2015, a baby rhino, Osita, was abandoned by his mother at Aquila. The baby rhino was rescued by staff, and nine-year-old Hunter Mitchell, after hearing about the rescue, jumped on board to raise money for the upkeep of the calf. Currently, Osita, and the newest still-to-be-named ophran, are being housed at the temporary orphanage at Aquila in Touwsriver.This rhino orphanage, which is to be opened at a secret location, is the first of its kind and is the brainchild of Searle Derman, the owner of Aquila.In August 2011, tragedy struck at Aquila when three of its rhinos faced the brutality of poachers. One died, we managed to save one and the other fought bravely for five days before succumbing to his injuries. It was after this tragedy that the NGO Saving Private Rhino was formed. The idea behind the initiative was to ensure the future conservation of Africa s rhino and wildlife heritage.This sparked the idea for the rhino orphanage, which Derman said would offer free support and treatment to any Big Five or safari animal. The growing scourge of poaching countrywide meant that more and more rhino calves were being abandoned to fend for themselves. Although the location of the orphanage was a secret at this stage, Derman said it was ideally located in the Western Cape s wide-open countryside, denying poachers opportunities to hide. Although organised crime poachers are active throughout South Africa the majority of the opportunist and subsistence bush meat poachers are concentrated up north. Also, Western Cape game reserves were spared the perils of snares left behind by poachers.He said after their extensive research they now had the facilities to raise orphaned rhinos in a safer environment with highly experienced staff to give the orphans the best chance possible.The plan is for the orphanage to open its doors within 30 days. Aquila would also be opening a rehabilitation centre and basic veterinary hospital a month later, and free anti-poaching training would be offered there. But it isn t all as easy as it sounds.Adult Osita greets the new calf at Aquila. Photo: Henk Kruger Caring for a baby rhino is extremely costly and high risk as they are prone to infections.Derman is offering to take in baby rhinos as well as injured rhinos free of charge to rehabilitate them. A baby rhino needs a milk feed every three to four hours and there are many additional intensive chores for staff regarding feeding, hygiene and cleaning the facilities on a 24-hour basis. A baby rhino can drink up to R5000 of milk a month, and when they get a bit older the young rhino can eat an additional R5000 worth of lucerne and teff a month .For the first six months of the baby rhino s life it is susceptible to a number of health problems including colic, ulcers and eating sand which require expensive medication and experienced, qualified vets.Dr Johan Marais is the patron and national head vet and wildlife surgeon, while Dr Doempies Trichard has been contracted in as their local vet.Derman said there were huge expenses involved. Our bomas can accommodate approximately 30 orphaned baby rhinos, however, our very large outdoor electrified enclosures can accommodate approximately 16 adult rhinos should they be awaiting surgery or be in recovery. We are committed to rehabilitate and release rhinos that have suffered gruesome facial and respiratory injuries due to poaching incidents. This will require our vets to provide lifesaving reconstructive surgery to allow these traumatised animals to breathe and eat normally. Eventually the babies will go back to their owners. We have two associated game reserves in which to release any rhinos that cannot find a home. These reserves have reliable anti-poaching units and security measures, said Derman.Looking at the baby rhino and the sheer joy he exuded, I am saddened to think that for the rest of his life there is a target on his back, unless more is done to ensure that rhinos are protected. Weekend Argus