Walus’s lawyer, Julian Knight, confirmed that argument would be heard by the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein on May 5, almost a month after the 24th anniversary of Hani’s death. The SACP reiterated this week it still wanted answers from Walus on Hani’s assassination on the Easter weekend of April 10, 1993. Walus’s co-conspirator in the killing of Hani, Clive Derby-Lewis, died last year from cancer, a few months after his release on parole. The hearing in the Supreme Court of Appeal  follows the filing of an appeal by Justice Minister Michael Masutha in July last year after the High Court in Pretoria had ordered the release of Walus on parole. Masutha said in his application that the high court had erred in its judgment and he believed that the Supreme Court of Appeal would arrive at a different conclusion in the matter. Hani’s widow, Limpho Hani, referred inquiries to her lawyer, who could not be reached for comment. In its message on the 24th anniversary of Hani’s death this week, the SACP said Hani remained the embodiment of a true and honest leader, who never sought to advance his personal interests above those of the poor. The government has declared Hani’s gravesite and Wall of Remembrance as a national heritage site. The SACP said the full circumstances of his murder had not been disclosed by Hani’s killers, Walus and Derby-Lewis. The party said it wanted an official inquest into the killing of Hani. There was drama at 24th anniversary commemoration of Hani’s death this week when the SACP said its second deputy general-secretary, Solly Mapaila, was the target of an assassination attempt at the gravesite of Hani. This followed the emergence of a video of a man pointing a firearm at Mapaila before his scheduled address at the event was aborted because of heavy rain. Mapaila later spoke out strongly against this “brazen” attempt on his life. The SACP said on Wednesday it would tighten security around all its leaders. The ANC has also condemned the apparent assassination attempt and said it would investigate the matter. President Jacob Zuma earlier delivered the keynote address at Hani’s commemoration, at which Hani’s widow, Limpho, spoke supportively of Zuma. She said at the event that Zuma had been supportive of her and her family. Through the years, the Hani family has opposed parole for killers of the SACP leader. Both Walus and Derby-Lewis were denied amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in the 1990s for not making full disclosure about the killing.