Abader, who served as chief of security for the movement, died of cancer at the age of 65. Abader’s Jenazah was attended by hundreds of mourners who affectionately described him as a “great leader”. His Jenazah travelled from his Woodstock home to the Muir Street Masjied in District Six after Asir. Media reports attribute Abader as “Amir of Thikr Jamaat”, meaning he was the leader of a prayer group in reference to his role in leading Pagad’s Thikr prayers. Pagad’s national secretary, Abida Roberts, expressed an emotional appreciation for her comrade as she proceeded to pray with the other mourning women. Abader was part of a movement which became known for confronting drug dealers and gangs. In 2002, he was acquitted along with a number of other senior Pagad leaders of the murder of gang leader Rashied Staggie. He was convicted on a charge of public violence. “It is with great sadness that we have to announce the passing of Salie Abader, the brother in Islam of Abdusalaam Ebrahim, leader of Pagad. “Pagad and the EFF have a close relationship which was established from the birth of EFF in 2013,” said EFF Western Cape chairperson Bernard Joseph, offering his condolences on Facebook. Messages of tribute and condolences for the family flooded in on Facebook. “Today is a day of sadness as we say farewell to our Father, Brother, One of the Great leaders in the World Boeta Salie Abader, who was always willing to sacrifice purely for the love of ALLAH who stood for Justice, who fought against Oppression and Injustice In This Country,” said Pagad’s national co-ordinator, Haroon Orrie. He added Abader was “a leader who truly showed courage, strength and steadfastness.Your exemplary life will remain among the Mujahideen and the believers. Allah promises us two things: victory or martyrdom. “We ask Allah to ease the path for our beloved martyrs and may Allah’s mercy be with you, and may you be raised on the day of judgment with the prophets, siddiqeen, Shuhadaa and the Saaligheen Ya Rabb. Ya Allah we ask you to grant their families the same status. Ameen.”