Julius Malema’s right-hand man married Siphesihle Pezi in a traditional wedding on Saturday at Mahosini village outside Malamulele in Limpopo. Apparently she was recently employed by the ANC in Parliament and news of her wedding to Shivambu on Saturday set tongues wagging. Pezi looked glamorous in her traditional Xitshonga outfit, Xibelani. EFF leaders Julius Malema and Dali Mpofu as well as former Limpopo MEC David Masondo and former ANCYL deputy president Ronald Lamola were among the guests, along with the Vhavenda King Mphephu Ramabulana. Media personality Given Mkhari was the MC. Those attending were asked not to take pictures, but photos of the glowing couple were shared on social media platforms. The first leg of the wedding was held in Cape Town last weekend and only some members of the EFF national leadership were invited, according to those in attendance. Some suggested that the fact that the bride works in Parliament and that she is apparently an ANC member, explained the secrecy around the wedding rituals. Malema allegedly did not attend the wedding function in Cape Town, sparking speculation about whether he approves of his deputy’s marriage into the ANC. Recent media reports have also indicated that there is a fall-out between the two, allegedly over money received for giving votes to the DA after last year’s local government elections. But Malema dismissed this on Saturday. “There is a rumour that has been circulating that the CIC (commander in chief) was not at Cape Town on the first leg of the wedding because there is bad blood between him and Floyd Shivambu. “That’s not true. I sent a delegation which is a leadership of the EFF and they brought back a good report and I was happy. Only mad people who don’t understand cultural things will say that.” Seemingly aware of the controversy around Shivambu and his bride’s political affiliation, Malema said: “We as the EFF can’t bar Floyd or any member of the EFF to marry ANC members. “If we bar Floyd then we will have a problem. We might lose him. We believe that all parties are African parties. To the Shivambu family, I thank you because the boy you gave us now has returned as a man. “Floyd, you must look after this lady. We don’t want divorce. In the EFF we also don’t promote polygamy. One wife and one husband If you divorce this lady, we won’t come and even the family must not come, you must go to the magistrate and sign on your own.” Malema also had a message for the bride. “To the lady, Floyd also has a family which is the EFF, so sometimes he will be forced to go to meetings at night. There are some of the meetings that our wives must not question.” King Ramabulana wished the newly-weds best wishes: “To you Floyd and makoti, we wish you all the best in your new journey You must look after that lady and love her.” The Sunday Independent