THE Kalk Bay mosque has been promised a sponsored state-of-the-art security surveillance system after the place of worship was desecrated last week with splattered blood.Last week a pig s snout and blood were placed outside the door of the Simon s Town mosque and a few days later the mosque in Kalk Bay was splattered with blood and holy scriptures were broken.Sharief Ariefdien, chairman of the Kalk Bay mosque, said the incident had prompted a sponsor to offer to install the new security system.The mosque, he explained, was never locked and always open to worshippers.However, as a result of what has happened they needed to lock it.But he said the new system would allow for the mosque to be locked, yet allow people entry when they wished to do so.The mosque will be receiving a surveillance camera outside, which will monitor the entrance and the windows. There will be motion-detector cameras inside the mosque and a security system that allows four people from the mosque to open up for visitors using their cellphones.He said the cellphone numbers would be posted outside the mosque and if people wanted to enter the locked mosque, they could dial the numbers and the recipient would be able to open it from their cellphone.The interesting thing, he said, was those four people would be able to monitor the visitors through video footage streamed to their phones. We are also looking at security to patrol. Ariefdien said even though they were planning to install the new security system, people are still not afraid to come to the mosque . This incident has brought the community closer. He said there were talks about having an interfaith gathering in the near future as Kalk Bay was a very diverse community.As result of what has happened at Kalk Bay Mosque, Ariefdien said, they had been in contact with Simon s Town Mosque. We are building a relationship with them. Imam Abdul Gakiem Raban of the Simon s Town Mosque, said they didn t have any security except for a secure lock.But he said a neighbour also keeps a close eye on the mosque.However, Raban said they were planning to install cameras very soon.Raban said he was informed by the SAPS that a suspect had been picked up for questioning, but then released.The suspect was seen on the street surveillance cameras, but there was no clear evidence picked up that he was responsible for the crime.However, this could not be confirmed. The police said there were no new developments to report and the investigations were ongoing.MJC deputy president Moulana Abdul Khaliq Allie said there was no fear in the Muslim community, but rather they were pained and grieved by what happened.The incidents at the two mosques won t drive people away .Religious leaders from other faiths have also shown their support for the Muslim community.Rev Michael Weeder, Dean of St George s Cathedral, said the attack on Muslims was an attack on all places of worship and all people are affected . Anybody that attacks Islam in the way it has by desecrating a place of worship is an attack on all faiths. In terms of safety at places of worship, he said: Besides inculcating a deeper sense of vigilance, the most powerful defence is the way we talk about religions. He said the incidents that took place at the mosques were not typical of our society. Affected communitues must know other people care, not just Muslims, but non-Muslims. These incidents compel us to become more introspective that this kind of violence can come from our city. We need to keep exposing these things. Eric Beswick, executive director of Temple Israel Wynberg Synagogue, said as Jewish people they were very aware of security concerns. We are upset that people feel it is okay to attack a religious organisation. We would never condone this towards any kind of religion. We condemn the attacks on these mosques. He said at his temple they had cameras and electric fencing as well as guards on duty outside.Visitors who enter the temple are required to fill in a visitors form and they need to provide identification.