The first World Youth Rhino Summit was held in September 2014, and I can still remember the excitement as hundreds of young delegates gathered in Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Park, KwaZulu-Natal, to send out a worldwide call to say don t forget about the youth in this fight to save the rhino. There was a lot of expectation riding on the shoulders of the Vietnamese delegation, and I found myself at the opening of a game capture boma with two nervous teenagers, Nguyen and Bui. This small boma was the unfortunate new home for two rhino calves after their mothers had been poached in the most horrific way for their horns. I don t advocate the touching of wild animals, but the smallest baby rhino walked right up to the opening when the three of us crouched down and I will forever remember the words of the young teen, as he slowly reached out and pushed his hand gently against the thick, but soft, skin, leaving it heavily on the orphan as he whispered, he is breathing, his skin is moving .Ironically, two years later, this fabled home of the white rhino that saw the youths enthusiasm and hope, is facing the highest levels of rhino poaching ever. If we want to get technical, a more than 400% increase compared with five years ago. Some call the rhino poaching a crisis, some call it a war, and others even a campaign. What about a genocide? As an embedded journalist filming for my documentary STROOP, I ve witnessed the brutal reality of what our country is dealing with. I ve seen more carcasses than I can remember and I find it impossible to erase the smell of these crime scenes. In South Africa I ve questioned an emotionless trafficker of rhino horn after his trial, and for the first time, at the end of last year, I couldn t contain the tears when I heard that the world-famous rhino called Hope had died. She survived a poaching attack and against all odds continued to fight for her life for 18 months. I was privileged to document a lot of her journey and witness her fight for survival. She was, for a lot of us, the light at the end of the tunnel. But her light will live on and she will forever remain the face of rhino poaching survivors. If you ve been on Twitter recently you would have noticed many have not been fond of 2016, and that s putting it lightly. Hashtags like #2016MustGo and #2016worstyearever made the top of the trend list for days. And if you look at the top news stories for the year, well who can blame the tweeps? Maybe it has been the worst year and we all have our own reasons, but one thing I do know - it has certainly also been the worst year for rhinos. In September last year President Jacob Zuma opened the largest World Wildlife Conference, officially called the Cites CoP17 that saw thousands of delegates from 183 countries discussing trade in animal and plant parts. As I roamed the halls I came across those who passionately argued both sides of the trade debate. It bordered on religious fervour from those who skulked watching from the periphery, as only governmental delegations did the power lifting in the arena this time Swaziland s proposal for trade was dismissed in a secret ballot, and yet another 3-year intergovernmental report was commissioned by Cites to look into the ramifications of rhino poaching. Don t we have enough evidence?After witnessing my first Cites conference I fear we are still on our haunches getting ready for the start of the 800m race when the gun for the 100m has just been shot. The greatest victories in history didn t happen because of governments, but because of the people. The people made it happen. So unless you get off your armchair and make it known that you care about what is happening to our rhinos, their year will be a bleak one. Many years from now, don t you want to look back on 2017 as a happy memory of opportunities grasped, action taken and lives changed. They may not be human lives, but they are just as important, don t you think?* De Bod is an award-winning television presenter and filmmaker who is passionate about all things rhino. She is currently filming a feature documentary with award-winning filmmaker Susan Scott on the rhino poaching crisis called STROOP . Due for release this year, the groundbreaking film is expected to unravel the complex intricacies of the rhino issue to audiences in South Africa and around the world.