The Ford brand has been tainted after the safety recall of the defective Kuga SUVs and the manufacturer has been criticised for its poorly managed public relations. Ford chief executive Jeff Nemeth announced on Monday the safety recall of the 1.6-litre Kuga SUVs after a spate of engine fires that have left owners fuming and afraid. At the press briefing, Nemeth said the fires were because of overheating caused by the engine coolant not circulating properly. A total of 39 cases were reported in South Africa, including a death allegedly resulting from a fire. The family of Reshall Jimmy, who died after his Kuga burst into flames in December 2015, and other drivers are instituting a legal claim against Ford.The recall affected 4556 Kuga 1.6l Ecoboost models produced between December 2012 and February 2014. Independent Media spoke to reputational risk specialist Evelyn Holtzhausen about the damage suffered by Ford.Holtzhausen said Ford made a big mistake by taking so long to acknowledge the problem. They waited far too long before they acknowledged that there was a problem and when they did, they became very defensive. It s almost like they said it s not my fault, they were blaming everybody. They took long to respond and never took responsibility. When they took responsibility, they never put plans in place. In the end customers were treated very badly and their reputation has really taken a serious knock, said Holtzhausen. Ford needed to embark on a massive public relations and communication campaign to restore trust in people. &quot;It's going to take them years to recover from this very bad PR. The first thing you can say I am sorry, apologise to owners, acknowledge they behaved badly and say it would never happen again. &quot;My advice to Ford is to embark on massive public relations plans to try to win back the trust of their customers. OUTsurance head of clients relations Natasha Kawulesar said the company received some Ford Kuga claims and had settled all of them. We are monitoring the situation and our actions will depend on whether we can recover the losses from the manufacturer, said Kawulesar.Ford dealerships were busier than usual as the owners of the defective SUVs brought in their vehicles to be repaired. Dealership employees said people were relieved they were asked to bring in their vehicles.