Cape Town Amira Ajam, a city paramedic who was robbed twice last year, believes she came face to face with the man involved in both incidents at the Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court on Friday.Ajam was speaking outside court after the appearance of three suspects linked to the robbery on the Day of Goodwill in Mandela Park, when she and colleague Clayton Cornelson were robbed.Earlier, about 50 paramedics, followed by nine Emergency Medical Services (EMS) vehicles, marched from the Khayelitsha District Hospital to the nearby Khayelitsha Magistrate s Court, carrying banners with the message Enough is enough .The paramedics also sang and danced for 30 minutes in front of the Khayelitsha Remembrance Square before they packed the courtroom.The case against the three men, including a foreigner who doesn t have legal documentation, has been postponed to March 10 for a formal bail hearing for accused number one, who has another pending case of robbery.Magistrate Vernon Jantjies granted prosecutor Andrew Edem s request that the case be postponed for further information. All three suspects will remain in custody.Ajam and Cornelson were stopped by a frantic family on Imam Solomon Street in Mandela Park, where a woman was on the pavement having a seizure.Cornelson said he thought it was safe to stop because the street had been quiet, but as soon as they began to help the woman, about eight men came out of nowhere and demanded his cellphone.At this point, the patient was still convulsing. As as I opened the sliding door, they came running. Two of them pointed guns at both sides of my head and asked for my phone and my money. I gave it to them, and a few seconds later, another one came with a knife, asking that I give him my phone. Ajam fled and locked herself inside the patient s home. The men followed her and banged on the door until Cornelson shouted at them. Ajam said the men then ran off, jumping over the confused patient.As accused number one entered the courtroom from the holding cells on Friday, Ajam said she recognised him as he scanned the room packed with paramedics.In January last year, Ajam survived an attempted hijacking in Site C, Khayelitsha. She said two of her colleagues, who were also robbed in December, had taken leave since the ordeal. Speaking on the sidelines, Michael Serelina, chairman of the provincial Hospital Public Servants Association, said that over the course of the past year, EMS staffers had lodged 90 cases of robbery. He said an overwhelming majority of those cases had been closed due to insufficient evidence. Serelina said he was happy to see this case go to court. We have tried our utmost to help EMS management protect their staff. It s impossible because (the robberies are) widespread. Serelina said this had been only the second incident out of 90 where there were arrests. He urged politicians and law-enforcement agencies to act.Weekend Argus