Cape Town - There was Weddings Crashers and now there s Wedding Bashers, four to be exact, and they are ready to judge your wedding.Pay TV broadcaster M-Net unveiled their latest reality TV offering, Wedding Bashers, a series that will showcase several weddings from across the country.Four judges will attend the selected weddings and the winning couple will bag prizes worth R250 000.The four judges are former Miss South Africa Cindy Nell, wedding planner and reality star Zavion Kotze, food expert and chef Siba Mtongana and actress Denise Zimba.All weddings are eligible, the only requirement being you get married on a particular date. Couples entering have until Valentine s Day to enter with production set to start in April.Producer Gavin Wratten said the judges would score the weddings and viewers would also be able to rate the weddings. We are being inundated with entries, it has exceeded my expectations. Many people are getting married on April Fool s Day; we have to decide which ones we can attend. The producer believes scoring will reflect the judges overall experience It s not about the money, it s about the atmosphere. I want the judges to be as honest as possible. Kotze will judge the decor, Nell the fashion, Mtongana the food and Zimba the entertainment.Zimba said she would be looking at everything from the first dance to the choice of MC and the band.She s even open to cheesy flash mobs and dance routines. I studied musical theatre, after all .Nell said the judges would comment on different elements of the weddings. I will be checking what the guests are wearing, looking for bad tans, etc. There is a category for the wedding s X Factor. We could be at a beach wedding with cold food and so-so music and no flowers but for some reason it is the biggest party. It is about the best overall experience, she said.Kotze is probably the most qualified judge as she owns a wedding planning business.The former Survivor South Africa contestant and and decathlete was star of the Via reality series Zavion, which focused on his business and his journey to marriage with now husband John Brereton. I had a great year last year, I did 86 weddings and I already have 38 booked for this year, he said.In spite of all this experience, he does not plan to overpower the panel. I want to be the quiet voice of reason. I just hope the brides are not late. He hopes the show features same-sex couples too. South Africa is a country of diversity and this show needs to showcase that. Mtongana has been planning menus for weddings and hopes the show will give her the opportunity to share tips with brides-to-be on food. This is totally different for me, it s not on a set, the show will always be on location. I get to meet different people. It is really exciting. Weekend Argus