Cape Town - Five-year old Ashline Telmarks loves to sing and dance. But now she might never walk again.The little girl, the latest victim in the ongoing gang violence in Hanover Park, is recovering in hospital after she was shot in the spine on Tuesday evening while playing near her home.Her mother, Merletha, waits anxiously at her bedside at Red Cross War Memorial Children s Hospital hoping for some positive news. They first told me that she won t be able to walk again, but there is hope now. She said she was waiting for the next few scans which would reveal if her daughter would walk again. Ashline is very hyper and loves to sing and dance. Tragedy struck on Tuesday while Ashline was playing outside her home. Her grandfather was watching her but he went inside for a few minutes.In that time there was gunfire as gunmen ran through the area and Ashline was struck by a stray bullet. Merletha was visiting her mother in the next road, fetching yoghurt and milk for her one-year-old baby, Arletha. She returned to find her daughter had been shot.Merletha went straight to the hospital and Ashline cried when she saw her mother. Yesterday Ashline was still in ICU.Merletha said Ashline had been on pain medication and was drifting in and out of sleep.On Friday morning, Ashline opened her eyes and looked at Merletha. Mommy, she whispered, before drifting back to sleep. She can now drink water. But she is crying from the pain. Her grandmother, Arletha Abrahams, bought her a teddy bear to comfort her.The ordeal has been taxing for Merletha, who returns home at night to nurse her one-year old. Merletha said she was furious about the incident, but I am just glad that Ashline is alive .She was worried because the social workers at the hospital had said Ashline would be removed from her custody unless they moved out of Hanover Park.Darryn Allen, a spokesman for the Department of Social Development, could not confirm or deny this. Police spokeswoman Noloyisa Rwexana said no suspects had been arrested.