MAKING excuses was not an option for blind pupil Jody Oliver, who has passed matric at a mainstream school.Oliver, 20, who matriculated from Fairmount High School in Grassy Park, was not born blind, but lost her sight after developing a brain tumour in 2012. I was suffering from severe headaches, she says.She went to the doctor who told her the headaches were merely migraines. I kept bumping into things. Eventually Oliver went to see an eye specialist, who recommended glasses. But soon afterwards she became ill and was taken to hospital. They saw blood behind my eyes. This was when the tumour was diagnosed. At this point she wasn t completely blind, but suffered a sporadic loss of sight. I went for my first operation and it was successful. A second, to remove the tumour, was performed. When she came around she was blind, and was off school for the year.She started going to the League of the Friends of the Blind (Lofob), which gave her the confidence to return to school - but not one for the blind. She wanted to go back to Fairmount , and after consultation with the school was allowed to return. It was very challenging. Besides the academic difficulties she faced, she was also concerned fellow pupils would not accept her. But to her delight everybody was exceptionally supportive . She went back into Grade 11 and then needed another operation to remove more of the tumour. Jody said she felt self-conscious as her head was shaved, but she returned to school and completed her Grade 11 exams. Her problems continued in her matric year when her mom died. Last year I went through a lot, she said.However, she told herself that she would persevere. I used a voice recorder and would record the lessons and listen to them again at home. She was helped by a Lofob volunteer as well as the Lions Club of Bergvliet, and her teachers, fellow pupils and family also supported her. Against the odds, her determination and work paid off. I told myself I want to be the one who stands out in my family. Grab opportunities with both hands, Jody said.Terence Klassen, the principal of Fairmount High, said Oliver was an inspiration to teachers and fellow pupils.