Urban development authority commissioner Melissa Whitehead filed a report with the city in which she sets out reasons why she should not be placed on precautionary suspension pending an investigation into the allegations brought against her by an executive director in the mayor’s office, Craig Kesson. Kesson, who turned whistleblower and asked for protection after he made the allegations in reports submitted to the council, is among the three officials facing suspension, including Whitehead and city manager Achmat Ebrahim. Kesson accused Whitehead of failing to ensure that contracts for MyCiTi bus station management had been properly supervised or to ensure that the losses to which the city became exposed were limited.  He also pointed to irregular expenditure with regard to bus chassis and alleged bias in the Foreshore Freeway development tender process. Whitehead said the discussion in the evaluation of the Foreshore bids had been robust due to the nature of the project as well as a decision to record a consensus score by way of collective voting. “In retrospect I regard this decision by the committee as flawed. We should have realised that it would lead to disputes and ultimately be unworkable,” she said. The committee deadlocked on an issue of affordable housing and cost benefit and financial modelling. One of the major differences of opinion was in relation to one of the bidder’s proposals on the affordable housing solution. “The proposal placed all of the affordable housing units underneath the highways - that is tantamount to apartheid. “I asked the members if they could defend their score on that proposal, which went against the spatial transformation policy of the council, which the mayor, deputy mayor and Brett Herron stand for,” she added. In taped recordings, the bidder had responded to a question on whether it considered its proposal acceptable given South African history by saying that “there are many people all over the world who live in ghettos under highways. Is it not better to live in a ghetto under the highway than to live in Khayelitsha?”. Whitehead said she had tried to be “fearless” in her attempts to implement integrated transport and urban development to the benefit of “the city and all of its residents, especially in the context of spatial transformation”. Regarding the handling of the MyCiTi bus stations management contract, Whitehead pointed out the official who had been responsible for the management of the contract and said subsequent investigations had been carried out at her instigation. “I immediately reported 
the alleged fraud to the city manager, who in turn authorised an internal forensic investigation and instructed the internal forensic investigation and instructed legal 
services to assist us in enforcing the contract against the station management contractor. “On my instruction, the Transport and Development Authority began implementing system-related measures to stop the human manipulation of the cash management system,” she said. She dismissed Kesson’s claims that she had not done enough to stop the theft as untrue and misleading. Twenty-two cashiers and supervisors had been dismissed and eight arrested for theft. Further measures included securing the point-of-sale equipment to prevent tampering and increasing security at stations.