In addition, if seeing their god, known as Major 1, meant forking out R100 000, they would gladly pay. They encouraged each other not to be swayed by the reaction to the prices for the upcoming gala dinner with the Malawian, despite prices ranging from R1000 to R25000. His followers took to social media and vowed to follow their man. “Do not be shaken by agents of satan. We are unstoppable. They are only sent to divert our attention from God, but do not give in to that ,” Masesi Sessy Dumela posted. Read: Inside Prophet Bushiri’s home Social media users quickly took to different platforms to condemn the prices. They labelled Bushiri of the Enlightened Christian Gathering a scammer and fraudster who thought he was god. Twitter user @NtlakazaZuko wrote: “One of my family members bought the VVIP ticket for the gala dinner with Prophet Bushiri which costs R25000. “This is pure madness.” @Luyanda_D wrote: “An ordinary ticket for Bushiri’s gala dinner is R1000; to sit with the Major 1 in the high table is R25000 what in the name of scams is this?” @Spon_Tumious said: “Shuuu, I just saw the Bushiri gala dinner flyer. Wow our people are just taken for a * ***, but they’re grown, so let me keep quiet. Others flooded Twitter with memes on the issue. @TommyRSA wrote: “So your parents might use your registration fees for Bushiri’s gala dinner and God will provide.” Others are keen to go only if the R25 000 included Jesus as the surprise guest; that they would gain entry to the Garden of Eden and Maria would be chef. @sonofMajor1EssyMsimango defended Bushiri and said: “Nobody complains when you give Casper Nyovest your money for what? Filling up FNB just to hear Tito Mboweni? “Give us a break please let us also buy tickets and fill up FNB for Jesus we do not mind paying even R5000 ticket to crossover with our Major 1.” @Mmaphuti Seakamela said. “In our family we don’t stress we relax even if it’s gonna be R25k we going to cross over with our papa.” Major 1 himself posted a statement on his Facebook page warning people about fake information circulating on the platforms. It was unclear whether he was referring to the same event. “We would like to inform our members and followers that the Night of Angel Gabriel 2017/2018 crossover team is yet to announce ticket details for the event. “In this regard, consider any information on the same circulating on social media as fake,” he said. Pretoria News