CAPE TOWN - The South African Revenue Service (Sars) has taken legal action against journalist and author, Jacques Pauw, claiming that his expose, The President’s Keepers violates the Tax Administration Act.  The consequence of this is that the more public the legal action against Pauw becomes, the more the president’s tax affairs will be exposed.  Read also: Jacques Pauw says he will fight Sars legal action In his book, Pauw claims that Zuma was on the payroll of a security company owned by one of his benefactors, earning R1 million a month for a period after becoming president.  Sars filed the papers against Pauw in the Western Cape High Court in Cape Town. "Sars discovered around 2011, that there was an employee on the payroll of Royal Security, which belongs to Roy Moodley - who's a known Zuma crony, that there was a JG Zuma on his payroll that earned a million rand a month. When the officials in KwaZulu-Natal started investigating this, he referred the matter to head office in Pretoria. When they put the ID number into the system, they discovered that is the president" says Pauw.  Pauw told African News Agency that he was astounded when he received the notice of motion from Sars.  "It is not an attack on the credibility of the book but is confirmation of the credibility of the book".  "They simply want an order that I've broken the law. What then?" He then said that the matter will be dealt with in the new year as lawyers are currently on holiday: "I'm not worried about this, we'll fight it. I'm sure there is more coming". 
Meanwhile, in November, the Presidency declared that Zuma’s tax affairs are in order.  The tax matters of the president are in order", Zuma's spokesman Bongani Ngqulunga said. Zuma had also not received any information "related to taxes linked to the Nkandla upgrades as alleged by the media", Ngqulunga said in a terse statement in response to an exclusive extract from veteran investigative journalist Jacques Pauw’s new book "The President’s Keepers" published in The Sunday Times. READ ALSO: Zuma's tax affairs are in order, insists Presidency - BUSINESS REPORT ONLINE 