Pretoria - A Facebook apology is not enough for comparing people living with a serious disability to a private part. This was the stance parent Baatile Mofokeng from Atteridgeville responded with to the apology issued by comedian Tumi Morake. Morake landed in hot water after she made a degrading "joke" about Down syndrome during an episode of Comedy Central’s Roast Battle series on DStv’s channel 122. In a side-swipe to fellow comedian Schalk Bezuidenhout Morake said: “You are two p*** klaps away from Down syndrome, bitch.” Mofokeng said she still refused to accept the apology as she felt that people with disabilities were being limited to living according to everyone else’s norms and standards. She said: “For her to even utter those words about a disability and comparing it to a private part to me is the worst thing you could do to a child who is still living with the stigma of a disability and are not sure if they belong.” Mofokeng, whose 12-year-old son Nyakallo Mofokeng, also suffers from the disability said she felt as though the channel was equally to blame as they had decided to air the programme twice without seeing anything wrong with it. After lodging a complaint with the BCCSA, the mother said she also took the initiative to contact Multichoice directly, who queried if she would have reacted the same way had she attended the comedy. I explained to them that I understand a disclaimer is issued whilst attending such shows, but they brought it to us at home and they did not correct it, she said. “It was almost as if they were waiting for parents to shout and say this is wrong. They had every opportunity to correct and omit that scene, taking into consideration that it would discriminate against people with disabilities but they didn’t,” Mofokeng added. She said her biggest concern was that if jokes about one disability started other conditions would also be ridiculed and no one would have learned anything in the long run.    goitsemang.tlhabye@inl.co.za  Pretoria News