Khloe Kardashian has not suffered morning sickness during her pregnancy and is, so far, enjoying a "pleasant" time carrying her first child with her boyfriend Tristan Thompson. The 33-year-old reality star announced her and her beau Tristan Thompson are expecting their first child together earlier this week, and it has been reported the 'Keeping Up with the Kardashians' star has had a "pleasant pregnancy" so far without any bouts of illness.  Speaking about the television personality and how she is coping carrying a baby to Us Weekly magazine, a source said: "Khloe has not had any morning sickness or had any less than pleasant pregnancy symptoms." Not only are the couple starting a family together, but they are also believed to be house hunting for a "bigger" property they can call their family home.  The insider continued: "Tristan is house shopping and renting a house. [Khloe] loves her house but they might get a bigger house together." Although, the former 'Kocktails with Khloe' presenter and the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball player share a home in Ohio, they are often jetting back to Khloe's house in Los Angeles.  And it is believed Khloe would much rather have her 26-year-old boyfriend relocate and move in with her instead of them finding somewhere entirely new, although the couple are "open" to buying another house. The source added: "Khloe doesn't necessarily want to get rid of her house though so he might move into her house. They're figuring it out but they are open to her buying another house but it will be in Calabasas." The 'Revenge Body' host set tongues wagging her and Tristan were expecting a baby together in September this year, but it was only on Wednesday (20.12.17), Khloe publicly announced the exciting news.  Alongside a photograph of her flaunting her burgeoning bump, with Tristan's hands wrapped around her stomach, which was shared on her Instagram account, she wrote: "My greatest dream realized! We are having a baby! I had been waiting and wondering but God had a plan all along. He knew what He was doing. I simply had to trust in Him and be patient. I still at times can't believe that our love created life! Tristan, thank you for loving me the way that you do! Thank you for treating me like a Queen! Thank you for making me feel beautiful at all stages! (sic)"