The X-rays are of the chest cavity of Benjamin Fortes, 59, an accountant from Sunningdale Road, Kenilworth, who was the first heart transplant patient to receive a chimpanzee’s heart in South Africa. Barnard operated on Fortes, who was then the longest surviving heart recipient supported by an animal heart, in early October 1977.  Fortes survived for 82 hours post-surgery and died on October 17, 1977. The X-rays are now with Martin Myers, the son of Dr Horatio “Bullet” Myers, who was the head of radiodiagnosis at Groote Schuur Hospital's radiology department headed by Professor Ronnie Kottler. Myers said his father had worked closely with Barnard and his team. Barnard had signed a dedication to Myers' father on the X-rays.  In August 1981, Barnard performed his last triple bypass operation on Dr Myers, who lived until 1985. Myers said the X-rays had been of such great importance to his late father he never let them out of his sight and kept them in “a very safe place”. He decided to let Weekend Argus photograph the X-rays, as a homage to Barnard, whom he described as a “rock star”. “All I ask is that you credit my father, Bullet,” said Myers, who added that his father had earned his nickname because he received so many As on his report card. Tomorrow, the world commemorates the 50th anniversary of the first successful human-to-human heart transplant performed by Barnard and his team on December 3, 1967. Louis Washkansky, 53, received a heart donated by the family of Denise Darvall, 25, who died in a car accident. More than 300 medical experts from around the world, delegates from the World Heart Federation, major cardio-thoracic societies, non-governmental organisations, members of pharmaceutical companies and esteemed medical journals have gathered at a conference at Groote Schuur Hospital to honour Barnard’s legacy of “courage and innovation and how it is kept alive 50 years after the first successful heart transplant”. According to the conference press release, later today a “north vs south” dialogue will focus “on the plight of the millions of particularly young adult patients in low- to middle-income countries who suffer from rheumatic heart disease and who have no access to life-saving cardiac surgery”. Tomorrow, the medical practitioners will share their “unique stories of working in the heart transplant field over the past five decades”. This is to culminate in the signing of a Cape Town declaration, which aims to “bind many of the world’s most respected leaders in cardio-thoracic surgery, academics, cardiologists, policy makers and representatives of the (medical) device industry to work together, to bring the benefits of heart surgery to the estimated 33 million people worldwide who are affected by rheumatic heart disease”. Earlier this year, cardiovascular surgeon Dr Otto Thaning told Weekend Argus: “The lack of donors in South Africa is extremely desperate, as it is all over the world. There are too few donors and too many people needing organ transplants.” Thaning said the Organ Donor Foundation was constantly raising awareness for people to register as donors, so that many more people could be helped.  As many as seven lives can be saved by just one person. 