This was the basis of an  application by the Social Justice Coalition,  Equal Education and the Nyanga Community Policing Forum when they locked horns with lawyers representing the management and ministry of police this past week at the Equality Court sitting at the Western Cape High Court. The three groups are asking  Judge Nolwazi Boqwana and Judge MJ Dalamo to order the SAPS to review their allocation processes that will see police resources distributed fairly across all police stations.  The applicants argued that   Sea Point and Table Bay Habour police stations are over-resourced while Harare station in Khayelitsha, Lwandle in Strand and Belhar  have fewer than 135 officers per 100 000 people.  The Western Cape is most affected by police shortages  and has seven of its police stations featured on the list with the highest murder rates in South Africa, according to the police’s latest crime statistics.  According to the affidavit filed by the Western Cape’s Dullah Omar Institute researcher, Jean Francoise Redpath, who analysed the allocation of police by population size and crime trends, the figures showed that the (allocation) policy still favours affluent areas. “I found that the average was 283 police personnel per 100 000 of the population. The most resourced was 2 636 per 100 000 in the policing area Table Bay Harbour and the least resourced area 111 per 100000 in Harare,” she said. “All three Khayelitsha policing areas demonstrated less than the average allocation, with Khayelitsha (Site B) at 190 per 100 000 and Lingelethu-West at 275 per 100 000.  “I noticed that a number of areas which to my knowledge are similar to Khayelitsha in that they have large informal settlements and/or serious violent crime, also demonstrated figures which were much lower than the average.” In the instance where resources are allocated in accordance with crime trends, Redpath found that personnel is calculated per 100 of the
20 crime categories the SAPS uses when releasing crime 
statistics. She said calculations ranged from 1.9 police officers per 100 reported crimes to 37 officers, with an average of 3.4 officers per 100 crimes per year. “The problem with a resource allocation approach based solely on total reported crime is that areas where there is significant under-reporting of crime, there will then be under-resourcing. Furthermore areas already over-
supplied with human resources will continue to be over-
resourced as they are likely to have better reporting rates,” she explained. “When the number of police personnel is calculated per murder, there is a high degree of similarity between the areas which are under-resourced on this measure and those which are under-resourced on a per 100 000 people measure. The range is from one to 146 police personnel for each murder in an area. In particular Nyanga, Harare, Gugulethu, Khayelitsha and Mfuleni have two or fewer police persons per murder per year and occupy the bottom rungs of the rankings.” According to Redpath, the system the SAPS uses to allocate police, called Theoretical Human Resources Requirement (THRR), calculates the total time taken for all tasks done at a particular police station, when faced by issues like gangs and number of people coming in daily. The total is converted into numbers of people. Those figures then give the national office an indication of what police stations require in terms of numbers and rank levels. But those figures are never met due to budget constraints.   Karrisha Pillay, who represented the SAPS, said her clients acknowledged that the THRR is not perfect but that it does not mean that it is discriminatory. “SAPS end results show there is no proof of discrimination between Sea Point and Khayeltisha,” she added. “The question this court will have to ask is (if) there a comparator to determine whether the allocation is unfair from one area to another.  “SAPS say they are confident that they have a mechanism that meets the needs of communities. The court has to be satisfied that this comparative is appropriate in determining whether there is unfairness. “What concerns me is that it is pre-supposed that there is an over-supply of police in other areas. It is unprecedented that this court is asked to set aside an entire police allocation policies. We cannot rely on theories and inferences. “The THRR is problematic, it is not a perfect system, and the SAPS acknowledges it. This is a case of unfair discrimination based on race and poverty; we submit that an appropriate comparator needs to be drawn. The truth is policing needs are different for all communities.” Judge Boqwana asked Pillay if the SAPS did not find it strange that areas prone to high crime rates had the lowest number of police. “It might be strange but does it demonstrate unfair discrimination?” Thabani Masuku also for the SAPS argued that the applicants cannot prove that adding more police officers will improve efficiency of policing. “Even if you say it (policing in townships) is inadequate, it is not so because it is a racial issue but because resources simply are not there,” he said. “Once you prove inefficiency you have to prove discrimination, and inefficiency is not proof of discrimination. The assumption is that if you put more police in townships, there will be efficiency. “The real complaint is that the policy is unfairly discriminatory because there are adequate police services provided for richer areas.” The matter will resume on February 14 and 15.