Johannesburg - African National Congress deputy president nominee Lindiwe Sisulu on Sunday said her campaign for the higher post in South Africa's governing party has been a "lone campaign", detached from the "slates" within the ANC. "It [the campaign] is not so much about being the first female to be there. I ran a campaign because I wanted to try out different ways of running a campaign, because I felt that slates are really destroying the culture of the ANC," Sisulu told journalists shortly after her nomination at the emotionally charged ANC national elective conference in Johannesburg. "I felt that the factions that attach themselves to that are not good for the culture of the ANC. I actually ran a lone campaign and I've learnt a lot from that. It is doable, and I'm hoping that we could adopt some of those efforts going forward." Sisulu conceded that there were a lot of "tensions" during the nomination process earlier on Sunday, but she hoped her ANC colleagues would move away from divisions. 
    To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video
   This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "As you could see from the floor, there were a lot of tensions from the various provinces, and I'm hoping we could get over that. We belong to one organisation. We hold the same principles dear. We should find a way to do this which doesn't cause concern in our society," said Sisulu. "Anybody who was watching that nomination process playing itself out would be very worried about us, but I can assure them that we will find a resolution to that," she said. Sisulu, who is currently human settlements minister, agreed to work with ANC Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as the campaign intensified this weekend in the leadership race of the governing party. Ramaphosa is the leading candidate in the race for the top post to replace outgoing ANC President Jacob Zuma. Before the conference kicked off this weekend, Sisulu had been running her own campaign to become president. Read: #ANC54: Bathabile proud of women candidates Ramaphosa and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma emerged on Sunday as the only two candidates vying for president of the ANC after the nomination process.  Ramaphosa, also the deputy president of the republic, received 1469 nominations from six provinces for president while Dlamini-Zuma, a former cabinet minister and African Union Commission chairwoman, received 1094 nominations, according to election officials. Both accepted nominations. There were no nominations from the floor. Current ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize withdrew from the race for deputy president after receiving 193 branch nominations from one province. Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza was nominated for deputy president by 1128 branch delegates from six provinces, while Sisulu received 619 branch nominations from four provinces. Both accepted the nominations for the deputy president slot. The position of national chairperson will be contested by outgoing secretary general Gwede Mantashe, who received 1499 nominations from seven provinces, and Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa, who received 807 nominations from five provinces. Also read: #ANC54: A round-up of what's happened so far The secretary general race will be contested by former KwaZulu-Natal premier Senzo Mchunu, who received 1479 nominations from seven provinces, and Free State premier Ace Magashule, who received 930 nominations from five provinces. ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte is standing for re-election after receiving 845 branch nominations from seven provinces. She will go up against Congress of South African Trade Unions deputy president Zingiswa Losi, who received 361 nominations from three provinces. Two other candidates declined nomination. Water and Sanitation Minister Nomvula Mokonyane withdrew from the race for treasurer general. Gauteng ANC chairman Paul Mashatile, who recived 1581 nominations from seven provinces, will now go up against International Relations and Co-operation Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who received 275 nominations from four provinces. African News Agency (ANA)