Cricket is still very much part of life for the man they call Robbie P. He wore his heart on his sleeve for the Proteas in all formats of the game for 12 years. But now it’s all about serving the greater good. Robin, 38, a boy from the ‘Baai, now calls Cape Town home and it’s where he, his wife Portia and their 1-year-old son Harper are happiest. “I’ve always loved Cape Town. I fell in love on a sports tour when I was 12 years old. I knew then I would end up living here, so when Shukri Conrad, then Cobras coach, approached me about playing here I felt it was the perfect opportunity - not only to move to Cape Town, but I felt the Cobras’ ambitions matched my own. “I had eight wonderful seasons for the men in blue. From a career perspective it was the right thing to do and to live in the best city in the world was an unbelievable bonus.” Robin is often used as a consultant for Cricket South Africa and he is working with the SA Under-19s as they prepare for the Cricket World Cup. He is also a regular TV commentator and contributor on SuperSport. But his most exciting journey involves schoolchildren. As a digital entrepreneur, Robin and his business partners at Kreeate Digital have developed a curriculum-linked app for schoolkids called the Kreeate Game which teaches them about entrepreneurship. It may not be the money-spinning career many cricketers opt for when they retire from the game, but that has never really been what the crafty left-hand spinner and elegant left-handed batsmen is all about.  “I’ve had so many wonderful memories playing cricket but without a doubt the best moments were playing and winning 10 trophies with the Cobras and winning consecutive series in Australia and England with the Proteas. “In a 20-year career I truly can’t remember personal milestones too much but the significant moments you achieve as a team are truly those special moments that live with you forever. I also think the friendships you create remains with you always - whether it’s from the Caribbean to Dhaka - and the fact that cricket has allowed me to see the world really makes one feel very fortunate. “I believe that whenever you’re on a team, whether business or sport, one has to be able to serve for the greater good of the group. I’ve always had that instilled in me by my parents and it’s something I try to practise every day. “I would have loved to have played more than I have for South Africa but I felt that if I could contribute off the field and help the team to prep for games I could still play my role in helping the group achieve success and create fantastic memories.” Robin said the values his parents taught him and his siblings about hard work and education laid the path for his business. They also motivated him to hit the books and study towards a qualification. “Kreeate is a high school-focused initiative that looks to advocate and foster entrepreneurship among learners aged 13 to 19. We have worked with learners across diverse communities and have seen a drive to succeed in all of them. Excitement and enthusiasm about making your own money is clearly evident, irrespective of where they come from. “Having successfully implemented a host of extra-curricular school entrepreneurship activities from 2010 to 2016, Kreaate launched the first of its digital engagement platforms called the Kreeate Game in July last year. It is available for both Android and Windows devices and can be played offline too, so no permanent internet connection is required.” Robin said the game was suited to the South African context because many don’t have the opportunity to study after matric or even find a job. The Kreeate Game aims to inspire young people to start their own businesses. “The basic premise of the game is to earn as many coins as possible so that you can feature among the top ranked players on the leaderboard and win prizes.” Coins are earned either in buying and selling products in different sectors like retail or automotive, or by correctly completing curriculum-aligned quizzes in maths, economics, management sciences and business studies. This week UCT will team up with Kreeate Digital to host the three-day Kreeate Game year-end event where the top 30 gamers will participate. They will be exposed to guest entrepreneur speakers, group activities, workshops and a business pitch competition and stand a chance to win big prizes. Robin is on a good wicket. He was hired as a coach for the Bloemfontein Global T20 League side before the tournament was postponed. He has big coaching ambitions. “I’m not looking too far ahead but I’ll try and find areas where I can add value. Being part of the Under-19 preparations ignited a flame, for sure,” he said , “so even though I didn’t get to win the World Cup as a player maybe I can get to do it as a coach.” *  For details on the Kreeate Game contact Alexander McLeod on info@kreeate.biz or 082 497 4517.