Here are some of the events happening this long-weekend: * Fact Durban Rocks, the concert that has been taking place for more than five years has become a regular feature. The concert will be held at Moses Mabhida Stadium on New Year’s Eve. The headlining acts are Cassper Nyovest and Black Coffee. * Not to be outdone by Fact Durban Rocks, Durban Vibes will be holding a concert at the Kings Park outer fields on New Year’s Eve with international singer Jay Sean headlining. Supporting him on the night are Sketchy Bongo and Kyle Deutsch and others, and the host is Shashi Naidoo. * Eyadini Lounge in uMlazi is one of the finest shisa nyama places in Durban. It regularly has top entertainers that get the crowd moving. * Another shisa nyama restaurant geared to upset the more established ones is 4320 Shisa Nyama, founded by Durban businesswoman Sorisha Naidoo, wife of business tycoon Vivian Reddy. Her restaurant also caters for vegetarians. Chef Cyprian Khumalo does the meaty side of the business. * Just down the road from Eyadini Lounge is Max’s Lifestyle which is hosting a party tomorrow. They will have big-name artists like Junior De Rocka, DJ Merlon and Professor, among others. * For those who want to take things easy but still want a good time, the Gin Gallery pop-up bar is the place to go. Located in Durban’s Florida Road, it offers a wide range of gin-based drinks for people to enjoy while listening to light music. For those who are not keen on gin, other drinks are available. It is open from Monday to Sunday, 12pm to 12am. * If you are looking for something a little more exclusive, the Oyster Box Hotel is having a New Year’s Eve party. There will be entertainment and food, with guests being welcomed with a gin cocktail. The menu will feature Serengeti chicken breast curry, buttered sweet onion phutu and home-made vanilla bean ice-cream. Cost is R2 500 per adult and R1500 per child. * It will be a bhangra night at Sibaya Casino on New Year’s Eve with international DJ Reme wowing the crowds. The event starts at 7pm and goes on until 3am. * For a mind-bending music experience, the Unyaka Music Festival at Giba Gorge promises to do just that with its line-up of psychedelic trance music. The festival runs from tomorrow until January 1 and people can bring camping gear so they can enjoy the music throughout the three days. * For New Year’s Day family fun, the Woze Durban Picnic is the place to go. This year's event will be held at Greyville Racecourse and will have a host of deejays who will be tearing up the decks from 1pm until late. Daily News