A Western Cape High Court Judge has dismissed the urgent application by the ANC Youth League in the Western Cape to declare the current provincial leadership illegitimate and nullify their attempts to organise a new congress. The ruling was delivered by Acting Judge Haley Slingers earlier today - after listening to arguments from lawyers representing disgruntled Provincial Executive Members who sought to have the legitimacy of their colleagues declared void. This after the group first approached the court two weeks ago asking them to interdict ongoing regional congresses that would culminate in a provincial congress being held in January. When that failed, the applicants were granted an opportunity to argue their case around the legitimacy of the PEC as well as the question of irregularities of the congresses being held. And for two hours, both sides attempted to convince Judge Slingers to deliver a judgement in their favour. Advocate Siboniso Khoza for the applicants argued that the irregularities around the organisation of the regional congresses were urgent because more were being held and outcomes of those congresses would influence decisions taken by the ANCYL ahead of tomorrow's national congress. The applicants allege that the regional congresses are being held without the knowledge of branches, whose mandate it is to elect delegates to represent their interests at the regional congresses. On the legitimacy of the current PEC, Khoza said that when its term ended on February, 22, the league should have put in place a task team to organise congresses that would lead to the election of a new provincial leadership. Judge Slingers questioned why the applicants only approaching the courts now on a matter of urgency. Khoza said the applicants had exhausted all internal processes and were mindful that going courts would be regarded as a betrayal that would result in their. “The ANC is at war with itself, by coming to court are you not asking the courts to take sides in a war it should not be a part of?” asked Slingers. In his response Khoza said it was the responsibility of the court to uphold the law, it may not be able to interfere in political happenings of the organisation but implored it to intervene when the very laws of the party were being flouted. “Things may be falling apart within the party, but this court is called upon to show that the centre still holds here,” he argued. Advocate Adrian Montzinger was insistent that there was no urgency to the application and that the applicants were alleging incidents of irregularities when they had no evidence to back it up. Montzinger added the constitution of the party stated nowhere that the PEC would be disbanded at the end of the two years. In her judgement, Slingers ruled that based on the information before her, the applicants failed to make out a case for urgency.“The problem this court has it that the illegitimacy originated in February, 2017 and we are now in December but that is not to say that the applicants cannot or should not protest the legitimacy of the PEC, they just cannot do it at this stage having waited months,” she said. “I find that this matter is not urgent. I am going to strike it off the roll.”