Cape Town - The sister of one of the dead former Life Esidimeni patients has accused the Gauteng Department of Health of forcing her family to use an undertaker connected to senior officials to transport the body of her brother.Welheminah Thejane, whose brother Daniel Charles Josiah, 43, died in September at Pretoria West Hospital, has made the allegations in the wake of the release of Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba s report into the ill-fated transfer of mentally ill patients in the province.Thejane s brother was transferred to Precious Angels NGO in Pretoria, and his death was among the initial 36 reported last year. She told Independent Media of her family s horror and shock when they were planning to transport her brother s body for burial in the Northern Cape.This came after the family was informed of her brother s death several months after trying to locate him after his transfer from Life Esidimeni. When the family arrived at the hospital, they were told by a nurse to use African Queens of Africa Co-op Funeral Solutions, owned by a former Gauteng health deputy director of mental health, Dumi Masondo. I had a problem with that when the nurse said Masondo will transport the body and (when) I asked why, she kept quiet, said Thejane. I said it means you and Masondo are making money with my brother s death . I was angry. I said again, this is a tender, how could you arrange with an undertaker for us? We have not met and we don t even know her, she added. She said the family were contacted by Masondo the following day that she would be transporting the body. Masondo initially told them to buy a coffin as she was only providing transport, she said. My husband asked her, (Masondo) how can you transport the body without a coffin? After a few minutes, she called again and said she had found a coffin and she would transport the body, said Thejane.According to the notice of death issued to the family by Masondo, Josiah died of natural causes . When contacted yesterday, Masondo told Independent Media that she was asked by Gauteng Health director Makgabo Manamela to help with transportation of bodies of former Life Esidimeni patients. Manamela called me and told me they were having a crisis regarding many dead bodies of the mentally ill patients which the department was unable to transport. I said, since you have a crisis, I will assist you and arrange to transport some of the bodies. This body (Josiah s) was the only one of the patients I transported, and I was paid R14 000, she said.In another revelation, the owner of Kotelo Funeral Services in Soshanguve, George Kotelo, admitted that several bodies of mental ill patients in Pretoria were stored at his funeral parlour for months uncollected. He had been approached by another undertaker, a Mr Mthimunye. I thought I was just helping another funeral undertaker to deal with the backlog of bodies at his funeral parlour. Later on, the man brought more bodies. Some of these bodies included those of white people. I asked where did he find these bodies but he did not answer me, Kotelo told eNCA.On Saturday, Kotelo expressed shock at the media attention on his business, saying he had nothing to do with the deaths. I do not know where they (the bodies) were taken from. I do not even know whether all the bodies which were stored at my business were all those of the mental patients. We are now made to take responsibility of other people s actions. It is believed most of these bodies which were stored at Kotelo s funeral parlour were taken from an NGO in Atteridgeville, which is allegedly owned by a woman only known as Mpumi.Independent Media contacted Mpumi on her cellphone, and the person who answered said she was not available. But later, the cellphone was switched off. Mthimunye s phone was also off.Weekend Argus