Cape Town - A pressure-filled day may be looming for George Mumbia, but his decades of experience with polo events and horses are sure to be helpful.Next Saturday the seventh instalment of the Veuve Clicquot Masters Polo takes place at Val de Vie Estate near Paarl.Mumbia has been part of the estate since the inception of the event. He started his career in the sport at a stud farm in Zimbabawe in 1989.He moved to South Africa in 1995 and has worked on several horse estates. In 2010, he began work at Val de Vie Estate and has climbed the ranks to become a stable manager, who takes care of 64 horses and employs 17 grooms.He explained the preparations behind the Veuve Clicquot Masters Polo for this year s instalment. I have to ask the captain what time we are playing on Saturday. I need to make sure who is playing at our stables and prepare those horses for the game. I need to make sure where the horses are on the day and if they have water. I need to make sure the scoreboards are ready, the tents are up and the chairs are placed as they should be. Saturday is going to be a hectic day, because we are playing on the Champion field at 3pm and at 4.30pm we have a wedding at a different field and we have to move all the chairs and stuff to the other field. I go with the grooms to the track, we walk the horses for about three rounds around the tracks, to loosen their muscles for the polo players. Experts Kevin Rixon and George Mumbia give a rundown on what to expect at the Veuve Clicquot Masters' Polo at the Val de Vie Estate. Picture: Enrico Jacobs/Weekend Argus Pro polo player Kevin Rixon will be one to look out for at the event. He has cultivated over 25 years of experience. He said although the game is regarded as an elitist sport and that not many people understand it, he has tried to educate locals.Know thy chukka a guide to poloThe 2017 Veuve Clicquot Masters Polo will take place at the Val de Vie Estate on Saturday, March 5. If you re attending this glamorous event, brush up your polo knowledge with this guide to the rules.PLAYER HANDICAPSPolo handicaps range from -2 up to 10 goals where any player with a 3-goal rating and above is considered to be at professional level. There are only a few players in the world who have reached the expert level of 10 goals.POLO TEAMSWhen playing on a full-sized grass field, there are two teams and each team has four players. There are two umpires on the field and a tournament director alongside the field who assists the umpires when they don t agree on a ruling.THE POLO FIELD/GROUNDThe polo ground is approximately 274 metres (300 yards) long, and 146m (160 yards) wide, if there are boards around the perimeter of the field. These boards keep the ball in play during the game. The polo grounds will also have two upright goals, one at each end of the field, and they each have two goalposts, that are 7.3m (eight yards) apart, and a goal is scored when the ball goes between the goalposts of the opposing team.LENGTH OF MATCHA full match is made up of four to eight chukkas and each chukka is seven minutes long. At the end of the chukka, a bell is rung after which the players have a further 30 seconds before the second and final bell rings to signal the end of the chukka and the referee blows his whistle. During the match, play stops when the ball goes out of bounds or an umpire stops play because of a foul.HORSESAlthough we often refer to them as polo ponies , the breed of horse that is used in polo is in fact a thoroughbred and often these horses are retrained from the racetrack. Their speed and agility make up an important part of any polo player s skill in a game. Because of the fast-paced nature of polo, there is too much physical exertion for one horse to be used in more than one chukka. At the professional level, a player might bring six or more horses to a match.POLO PLAYERSFour riders and with a minimum of one horse for each chukka to be played, make up the polo team. Each of the players have certain responsibilities depending on their position. Positions are numbered 1 to 4 where player 1 plays up the field to receive balls; player 2 has the responsibility of taking the ball into the opposing team s end of the field; player 3 will take the ball from defence to offence; and player 4 has the main responsibility for defence and distributing the ball.Kevin Rixon scopes the area which will host the event.Weekend Argus reporter Andrew Robertson tries his hand.Weekend Argus