Cape Town - In the sweltering heat Jasmina Salie joined other former residents for the 51st District Six walk of remembrance on Saturday.Salie, who lived in Caledon Street, like many others still has her heart pinned on returning home one day.She was 14 years old when she and her family were moved to Hanover Park. The move had a tremendous effect on us. The walk through the streets marks the date, February 11, 1966, when District Six was declared a whites-only area under the Group Areas Act of 1950. Subsequently, 60 000 residents were moved to housing on the Cape Flats and their houses were flattened by bulldozers. Salie said: All of this left so many scars. But there are more scars on my parents. Her mother, Fouzia Salie, 89, still lives in Hanover Park, often catches a taxi to District Six and visits the museum. Her passion is to return home to District Six. She said the family has applied to return to District Six.Director of the District Six Museum Bonita Bennett said the aim of the museum was to create awareness and preserve the history of District Six. Saturday's programme started at the museum. The St Cecilia s band, originally from District Six, walked through the original area. Participants carried replicas of street names from the district. These included well-known and vibrant Hanover Street, which is now Keizersgracht. There were also performances along the route and it ended at the Homecoming Centre in Buitenkant Street. Bennett said besides the annual walk of remembrance, about eight years ago the museum started the Seven Steps Club among other projects. Currently a newsletter is distributed to 700 of its members four times a year. Crain Soudien, one of the founder members of the museum, said he was part of the group who fought for the prevention of the complete demolition of District Six. We were responsible for saving Chapel Street and Francis Street. But he said the new developments in the area have changed District Six. A number of people have lost their homes through gentrification. The museum, he said, was trying to prevent the memory of District Six from being obliterated. Meanwhile the District Six Working Committee held a mass meeting on Saturday at the Woodstock Town Hall to garner support for its bid to reopen negotiations on restitution. As reported in Saturday's Weekend Argus, former residents and their descendants want current property owners in District Six to sell the land back to the state or pay some of their business profits to those who were forcibly removed from their homes.According to the article, they also want CPUT, which occupies half of the 150ha of the land in the area, to offer free tertiary tuition or bursaries as compensation to qualifying descendants.Shahied Ajam, the chairman of the working committee, said: Romanticising District Six is not going to make it for the people. People are taking matters into their own hands. This is a human rights issue. It is about more than restitution of land. You need to give back my sense of security.... my trauma and suffering. Former District Six resident, Jogera de Beer, 68, said she was born in the area. She said they were forcibly removed from their home in 1966, to Facreton. When the bulldozers came they left us with nothing. We were thrown out like dogs. She said all she wants is to move back to District Six. Another former resident, Edward G Jones, 72, said he was born in District Six and lived in Constitution Street at Bloemhof Flats. It was a beautiful time back then. There was a market where you could buy your groceries. It was such a happy place. New Year s Eve was the best time. We could sit on the streets and watch the coons (minsrels). He said he joined the minstrels. I was 22 when we moved out of District Six. My mother got a letter from the council and it said we had to move. &nbsp;He now lives in Bonteheuwel and has been filling in applications to receive a house in District Six since 1999. My forms were lost and I filled it in again in 2003 and they lost it again. I filled it in again in 2004 and I am still waiting for a house. Weekend Argus