Cape Town Hiking experts have called on SANParks to beef up security and install better signage on Table Mountain following the death of an Icelandic teenager last Sunday.Kathy Leverton, who has been hiking for more than 10 years, said: Having more rangers, who are visible, would be a big step in the right direction... to help prevent hikers from getting lost.&quot;Better signage (is needed) on some trails. Better trail maintenance much needed on some trails. SANParks Cape region communications manager Merle Collins said no foul play was suspected in the 19-year-old s death.Five fatalities, none related to crime, have been recorded on the mountain since 2016.Leverton said the main causes of hikers'deaths were falls and exposure to the elements. The few deaths there have been have almost all been due to falls, either from folks getting lost and ending up in places they shouldn t be on the mountain or folks not realising what the route they have taken entails, are not prepared for it and they take unnecessary risks. &quot;For example, being on a route that requires rope, they don t have it, and slip and fall. Forensic Pathology Services (FPS) said the young man's death had been caused by a fall off a slope. On this particular night, there were six visitor- safety rangers on duty for that particular area as team members of Wilderness Search and Rescue, as well as the SAPS, Collins said.Robert Daniels of FSP said the young man had been identified by a family friend on February 21 and the post mortem had been conducted on February 22. An inquest has been opened, says Western Cape police spokesperson FC van Wyk.Barry Washkansky, an experienced hiker, mountain guide and trail runner, said some of the conditions hikers may face were dehydration, heatstroke and hypothermia. The weather can change very quickly, so although it might be very hot on the ground, the top of the mountain can get very cold very quickly, he said.Leverton said: Ultimately, it comes down to the hiker s decisions to use a trail route. &quot;Not hiring a guide, not being adequately prepared, not knowing exactly where you re going, all of these things increase the chances of death,&quot; he said.Weekend Argus