Cape Town Athletics South Africa and Cape Muslim runners are at loggerheads over the display of the logo of the National Lotteries Commission, ASA s new sponsor, which Muslims find offensive.ASA issued the 2017 licence about two weeks ago, prompting social media debate among runners with some saying that wearing the logo amounted to sinning while others threatened to boycott running altogether.The 2017 licence also has the words: Covering or removal of the logos above during an event will lead to disqualification . It is this threat of disqualification that runners have taken issue with.Displaying the logo is against Muslim beliefs as it promotes gambling, which is a sin according to Islam, Nazeem Kariem of Ommiedraai Friends Athletic Club said. The club is one of Cape Town s biggest running clubs with Muslims comprising 95% of its membership.Kariem said runners should not be forced to display the logo as doing so goes against their conscience.Nabielah Davids, a coach and executive member at Top Form Athletic Club, said runners should have been consulted on the new licence. She said they advised their members to cover up the logo if they found it offensive.Both acknowledged an announcement by Western Province Athletics (WPA) at the start of the Cape Peninsula marathon last Sunday that, despite the wording of the licence, runners who covered the logo out of religious conviction, would not be disqualified.However, this week, ASA said anyone participating in ASA events should abide by the rules. Any athlete participating in an ASA event must adhere to ASA rules and regulations. This is not a new rule, implemented by ASA. It is a rule implemented worldwide and governed by means of the IAAF competition rules worldwide. ASA chief executive Richard Stander said.They were aware of the complaint voiced by Western Cape runners. Like any other view put forward to ASA, such views are dealt with collectively in accordance with procedures as indicated in the ASA constitution, Stander said.The founder of Nantes Athletic Club, Caroline Peters, said it was a pity the matter has not been resolved by ASA. We use this licence every weekend. ASA should not drag its feet, she said before adding: We live in a diverse country. People should not be dictated to. WPA spokeswoman Sue Forge said the authority was doing its best to look after our runners . [email&#160;protected]Weekend Argus