Student leaders of universities in South Africa give their views on the 2017 Budget.Rorisang Moseli: President of UCT SRC Rorisang Moseli: Money won't benefit students. The increase for tertiary education is welcomed, but we are aware that the money may not directly benefit students. Rather, it will probably increase block grants that are already under pressure. On the increase of the top end tax: It is an okay short to medium-term strategy but is not sustainable in the long run. What we need to place greater focus on is company tax, dividends tax, capital gains and strengthening our capacity to enforce our existing tax structure. Songezo Mazizi: UWC student leader Songezo Mazizi: We reject the education commission. If you remember Sona, the president mentioned the education commission that s still in progress and we reject it, because we know from past experiences about these commissions. You will remember the Marikana commission, it was nothing but a scapegoat to delay tactics for the ruling party and we know that they are using NSFAS (National Student Financial Aid Scheme) has a scapegoat. NSFAS is in crisis. Not long ago its chief executive resigned because of that crisis. We want free education for all - there is a $1trillion Russian deal that can also sustain free Afrocentric education; there are civil servants that are challenging government not to sign that deal. We have done research, we even have a funding model that is in detail. Fasiha Hassan: Deputy secretary-general at SA Union of Students and former Wits secretary-generalAs much as they spoke about this R 5billion, we have been critical of this new system of NSFAS. All it s going to do is put students in more debt. We were also concerned because Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said that he was waiting for the presidential commission; the presidential commission told us that they are waiting for Gordhan and the president to give them some sort of directive. They need to know how much money is available. Now we are being sent in a circle. If there is no communication with the government and this commission, then it s not going to do its job. Gordhan also failed to give us a road map. What we have been wanting from the government for the past two years is a road map to free education.Weekend Argus