This is according to Iraq’s ambassador to South Africa, Saad Kindeel. Speaking this week from his office in Pretoria, Kindeel said Iraqi forces, alongside international government partners, defeated IS fighters in Mosul earlier this month and this would have led to an exodus from his country. Kindeel said Mosul, the second biggest city in Iraq, had been the self-proclaimed capital for the IS, which has been hell-bent on creating a homeland for its extreme version of Islam. Muslims worldwide have largely condemned this. Kindeel said it had been revealed that South African fighters had joined the IS. However, Clayson Monyela, spokesperson for the Department of International Relations and Co-operation, said Kindeel had no right to make such statements to the media. “We will summon him to come and explain his utterances and why he’s not sharing what he knows with relevant state agencies,” said Monyela. The media has reported on South Africans who have been killed in IS clashes or arrested for links to the terror group. However, Monyela said: “It’s possible for someone to claim they are a national of a country and they’re not.” The Home Affairs Department has not confirmed any terrorist groups operating in South Africa, but alleged recruitment within the country has led to arrests and the government has been monitoring - and apparently found - IS links locally. Among these is the widely reported case of Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie, arrested at their homes in Johannesburg last year, who allegedly wanted to blow up American interests in South Africa. They had reportedly been planning to travel to Syria, where the IS also operates. Kindeel said IS recruiters promoted sectarianism to gain sympathy from Muslims. They recruited Sunni Muslims to fight against what they called a Shia threat in the Arab world. “IS projected themselves as the protectors of Sunni Muslims, but it was the Sunni people in Iraq who suffered most. It was Sunni people who were displaced. We have 4 million displaced people.” Kindeel said the IS had claimed Mosul and four other Iraqi provinces in 2014. Since then, Iraqis had become more united across ethnic lines to reclaim their land. “We saw Sunnis, Shias, Arabs, Christians, Kurdish and other groups joining hand in hand to fight IS. We are banking on this unity in Iraq. We still have many challenges facing us. We have to reconstruct homes, bridges, hospitals, municipal services, schools, roads and everything else that has been destroyed in the war with IS.” Kindeel said Iraq also needed to address the “damage IS has done to our society”, citing the teaching of children to perform terrorist acts and the mistreatment of women as “sex objects and slaves”. Kindeel, who has been the Iraqi ambassador to South Africa for 18 months, said his government wanted to “sign a memorandum of understanding” with South Africa “on how to fight terrorists moving between our countries”. In his budget speech earlier this year, State Security Minister David Mahlobo said the government had a counter-terrorism strategy. “Of serious concern is the sustained attempts by South Africans travelling to the conflict zones, especially the youth being the most vulnerable group,” Mahlobo said. “Although South Africa is not a primary target for attack by international terror organisations, no country is immune. We cannot afford to be complacent given the extent of extremist ideology and propaganda being spread through the internet and social media.”