Watching them through the windows from the stoep were 6-year-old Alvin and 7-year-old Errol Dyers. It was only when the musicians took a smoke break that they could enter the room and mimic the guitar chords they saw their elders play. The music they heard was varied. “It was tico-tico stuff,” said Alvin Dyers. “Latin music such as Django Reinhardt’s Sweet Georgia Brown, Stéphane Grappelli, that gypsy jazz sound.” Most of the musicians who frequented the Dyers home played in langarm bands, including their father, Bertram. Their mother, Freda, a competent violinist, bought the boys their first guitar. “It was a Bellini with cowboy figures on it,” said Alvin, smiling at the memory. Errol, being the eldest, would have the first go at playing the instrument. The younger sibling eventually complained that he was waiting too long. Errol secured a compromise: Alvin would sit on a chair holding the guitar and Errol would crouch behind him strumming and picking the strings while Alvin played the chords. They would alternate and became so adept at this playing style that they became a feature at Boy Scout fund-raising events. They were both cubs. They eventually left their two-boys-one-guitar routine when an uncle, Richard Benjamin, allowed them to use his extra guitar. The Dyers boys did a stint in a rock band which had started as a pop group, the core of which had been the Van Niekerk boys, Keith on vocals and Tommy on bass. The organist was Ralph Kaiser and Eldred Walsh played the drums. The Sacred Legion rock outfit evolved in proportion to what Alvin identified as their “rebellion”. Perhaps this was the first step along the musical road that led Errol Dyers, Robbie Jansen, Ezra Ngcukana, Basil Coetzee and others to provide the soundtrack of defiance for the Struggle in the 1980s. It was the goema, a small, hand-held drum of the New Year’s klopse carnival, that gave the name and sound to the Cape jazz Errol not only excelled in but was among its foundation practitioners. The title track of Dyers’s debut album, Sonesta, best catalogues the ability of this jazz-poet and playwright. He harnessed a hybridity of musical influences into the goema sound of which he was sovereign royal among all the goema elders of our days. The solemn and measured opening organ chords declares Dyers’s Anglican Church roots, counterpoised by a joyous lead guitar. The notes are slurred, like a warrel windtjie scurrying down Second Avenue. Banjos, New Orleans style, join in like gossiping mossies listening in on a conversation between bass and lead guitar, reminiscent of housewives conniving on a Monday morning across the washing line. You feel Errol’s creole soul 
slow-dragging from the hollowed absence of untold stories that were stolen from us, lied about and reinvented away from us as gentrification takes its toll on the land to which we belong. When poets die My people, our poets are few, our unnamed warriors lie unsung ‘neath crushed rocks and fynbos covered battlefields. My people, our goema griots sound, our songs known only by the stars and blood-soaked moons that trace our tears, burdening the load of sadness salted by oceans and burial ground graves of lies woven from the myths of history. My people, we are beautiful like the endless deserts and the dark clouds lush with rain and the seeds of crushed wild fig trees. Our beauty is the song our goema griots sound and bring to our rising hearts in dancing praise, awakening us to ourselves and to the beauty they sing through and because of us. My people, we are the beauty of the dance of falling stars. Helping us to love ourselves and the way we are the who we are is your legacy. * The Very Rev Michael Weeder is the Dean of St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media. Weekend Argus