Last month, the municipality gave six homeless families from the Slab Town informal settlement a place to stay in bungalows erected in an open space in Mjandane Street (“L Zone”) in Kayamandi. But residents from the area revolted, and repeatedly destroyed the structures. They claim the municipality had told them the open space was earmarked 
for a housing project for their benefit. 
When nothing materialised, residents attempted to occupy the land on several occasions but were thwarted by law enforcement officials who demolished their structures. Now the residents want none of the municipality’s efforts to provide shelter for homeless outsiders. Demitri April, 30, is among those who was moved from Slab Town by the municipality last month. “We questioned the move when it happened. One, because that open area is dangerous. Two, because we knew Kayamandi residents would not approve. Three, because the whole (process) wasn’t formal and we were not told what the criteria was for those who moved,” April said. He said L Zone residents had confronted them politely on two occasions, explaining to them why they could not live there. “They told us the municipality had been placing us in danger. They told us it’s their land and this was known by the municipality.” The Kayamandi locals have expressed their views by trashing the muncipality-supplied bungalows three times since last month, most recently on Wednesday night, just a few hours after officials had rebuilt four structures. The families fled when residents started knocking down the structures. Another of the newcomers, Breygot Booysen, 28, said they feared for their lives and had pleaded with the municipality to move them elsewhere or allow them to go back to Slab Town. However, according to municipal officials Jamestown and Klapmuts residents have also refused to accommodate the ex-Slab Town group. “The municipality told us we’re going to be moved (back to Kayamandi) on Wednesday night or this weekend. They’re placing us at great risk,” April said. Street committee member Nobanele Ntsondwa said the bungalows would again be demolished by L Zone residents because the municipality had not kept its original promise to residents.” A municipal official, who spoke to Weekend Argus on condition of anonymity, said: “You can’t take people from under a bridge (Slab Town) and let them stay here on land that residents have waited for.” ANC Ward 15 councillor Nosibulele Sinkinya said she had been consulted by the municipal leadership on the issue. She said 31 people had been moved into the bungalows. Vernon Bowers, the municipal spokesman, said the council was formalising an agreement. “Bungalows are a temporary solution until such time as a sizeable housing project is developed that is large enough to accommodate the affected families.”