IF THERE'S one thing you must add to your to-do list for these school holidays, it s glow-in-the-dark putt-putt. The unique mini-golf course in Milnerton is, round for round, the most fun you will have in a long time.Glowing Rooms boasts Africa s only glow-in-the-dark, 3D course. Everything is under black light and UV paint. Everything is painted in 3D, said manager and part-owner Caron Lenders, who added that the concept came from Germany.Glowing Rooms opened in December and interest in glow-in-the-dark golf has grown. Golfers of all ages have been enjoying the fun sport. When we just opened, we had a player here with three people and their child was 1. I said, 'Well, I don t think the child can play.' And they (the parents) said we will take a club and a ball (and see),&quot; Lenders said.&quot;I said okay, fine. And the child played, and actually got a hole-in-one on one of the holes. And the person who was 86 was my mother. And she finished second out of four people. Interestingly, Glowing Rooms s design and props are from the soon-to-be released movie The Dark Tower, which features Hollywood stars Idris Elba and Matthew McConaughey and was filmed in Cape Town last year. And the people who did the painting (at the 18-hole course), they also worked on the movie, said Lenders.Glowing Rooms caters for groups of 10 or more in the week and corporates and businesses have seized the chance to host team-building events at the venue.Weekends are for everyone, and more than 1000 players visit the 3D course between Friday and Sunday.The fun starts at 10am and the last players must be in at 7pm on Fridays and Saturdays. Doors close at 8pm.On Sundays, the operating hours are from 10am-4pm with the closing call at 3pm.It costs R100 to enter and another R15 for the 3D glasses. There are also a wide range of illuminated accessories for sale.There is a caf&eacute; which sells refreshments, as well as an event room where visitors can &quot;have a party and we have a little disco in there&quot;.&quot;You just have to bring your own music and your own platters and have your party, said Lenders.She added that one of the significant things about the experience is seeing your photos on your phone afterwards. When you have your glasses on, it is all in 3D, Lenders said.Glowing Rooms is situated at 1 Turf Club Drive, Montague Gardens, off Koeberg Road, near the Milnerton Traffic Department.