The theme this year was “The Colour of Magic”. Capes, sparkling ensembles , feathers,  and top hats were among the more popular choices. Traditional African outfits, paired with beaded accessories, stood out. The hues were bold colours in textures   including lace and faux leather. Head best dressed judge and fashion designer Terrance Bray said before the winners were announced he felt  the theme of the day was well interpreted. For all the fashion hits, there were some diabolical misses that belonged  in a circus or at a costume party. Some  favourites on  the day included a beautiful patched hooded gown by Diva Design by Brenda Quin. The dress was made up of leftovers fabric bits and pieces pieced together to make the dress. Worn by Samkelo Ndwadwe, this was one of the most photographed outfits. Also standing out was a gold and black body painted couple wearing very chic bracelets  by designer Maxhosa Laduma, who also conceptuised the outfits. Celebrities who came dressed to impress included Top Billing presenter Ayanda Thabethe. Some of the marquees were lavishly conceptualised, but entrance to these caverns of opulence came at a pretty penny. From personalised bars, photo booths and magical themes, these marquees had the wow-factor . Guests at the Soweto VIP marquee were given an experience of the township. They forked out R2600 for a ticket, which included an open bar and breakfast and lunch buffet options. Another marquee that hosted for the first time was The Opulence Experience. Organiser Lisa Modisane said 200 guests  were budgeted for. Tickets to this venue   cost between R3000 and  R6500. The most talked about marquee belonged to businessman Vivian Reddy, who earlier this week revealed that he would be hosting the entire Afrisun’s Sibaya Casino and Entertainment Venue. Those looking for something more informal or closer to the track,  forked out between R1290 and R9600. The Pieterse family have secured a particular spot for over 12 years. At spot 323, the family indulges in fruit flavoured gin and platters boasting sandwiches, mini burgers and desserts. Etienne Pieterse said the July was a time to reconnect with family and get creative with their fashion. In fact, the ladies of the family spent many late nights designing and sewing their own outfits to fit the theme. Winners in the fashion stakes of the day were: Best fascinator winner:  Zandile Maphumulo The winner of the best dressed race day man: Naseem Nazeer The winner of the best dressed race day woman: Sanelisiwe Dlamini dressed by Prince Nsibande Independent Media