IN A SCENE that can only be described as surreal, multiple murder-accused Cameron Wilson smiled and smirked as Judge Chantel Fortuin handed down her verdict finding him guilty of multiple charges of murder and rape. Wilson, 20, from Heinz Park, appeared before the Western Cape High Court yesterday, where he was found guilty of 13 of the 15 charges laid against him. The public gallery, which was packed with friends and family members of Wilson s alleged victims, erupted in celebration once the verdict was delivered. Many of those in court were residents of Valhalla Park, who came out in their numbers despite the rain to get justice for Lekita .Lekita Moore, who would have been celebrating her 19th birthday next Saturday, was killed in September last year. She was stabbed 98&nbsp;times and her breasts and vagina mutilated, allegedly by Wilson. He took away my sunshine, Moore s father Charles told media outside the court. He said he was happy with the verdict, adding: He (Wilson) must never see sunlight again. Moore s mother is undergoing treatment in a drug rehabilitation centre as the stress of the her child s death and the trial took a severe toll on her physical and mental well-being. Wilson s charges included five counts of murder, four counts of attempted murder, two counts of assault and rape, one count of the illegal possession of a firearm and one count of the illegal possession of ammunition. The case has been postponed to August 7, when the court will hear psychiatric reports on his mental state. Judge Fortuin said she found the State s witnesses to be credible, but that Wilson himself did not make a good witness. During the trial, Wilson repeatedly changed his statement, which the judge said affected his credibility.In delivering her verdict, Judge Fortuin also stressed the importance of women not being the property of men. No man can dictate where a woman can and cannot go, she said, in reference to evidence that Wilson tried to control the movements of his current girlfriend. He also denied that he was romantically involved with Moore, but the judge questioned this as evidence was submitted that Wilson also tried to dictate her (Moore s ) movements.Wilson s reign of terror began in October 2014, he was finally apprehended in April 2015. During this time, he allegedly attacked Abigail Plaatjies and raped her friend Stacy Lee Mohale, who was also stoned and set alight in Heinz Park earlier that month. Wilson s accomplice, who is a minor and cannot be named, was reportedly instructed to throw rocks at the girls heads to make sure they were dead. Wilson was also found guilty of the murders of Alfonzo van Rooyen, Toyher Stober and Ernest Erasmus in Philippi in 2014, as well as the attempted murders of Nicole McEwan and Roseline Lackay, and the rape of Dawney Davids.Wilson is the eldest of seven children and according to court records, had a troubled upbringing and was branded as a problem child at school. The Wilson family were not present at yesterday s proceedings. Much of the trial was centred on the testimony of Wilson s current girlfriend and grandmother, who both testified against him for the State.Following the proceedings, residents of Valhalla Park sang and danced outside the court. Our God is good, shouted one woman. Valhalla Park resident Joyce Solomons told Weekend Argus: Ons is hoogs tevrede met wat die hof gedoen het (we are very satisfied with the findings of the court). However, even more shocking than Wilson s smirks and smiles during the trial was a claim by Lekita s sister, Mercia, that Wilson threatened her in court. Mercia alleged Wilson had told her: Jy gaan sien, jy gaan vrek (you will see, you will die). Moore s family said they would celebrate her birthday next Saturday by cooking food and distributing it to needy children. Court proceedings will resume when the court reopens after the July recess.