“What is next is radio,” is all Marawa would say. “There will be a microphone that will be on. ” Marawa’s shock exit from Metro FM earlier this month, where he hosted the popular 083Sports@6 programme, has been highly publicised. The drama began early last month when Marawa’s producer, Beverly Maphangwa, was suspended by the SABC for playing an audio clip from their competition, SuperSport. Marawa said the sanction was “unfair” and decided to “take a stand” against management’s decision. He took himself off-air, saying he wouldn’t return until Maphangwa’s ban was lifted. The SABC eventually terminated Marawa’s contract. “The main charge was that I withdrew my services. “I was supposed to come to work and I didn’t. But then obviously the counter charge is that I notified them (SABC management) that I am not coming to work. “But then they were quick to justice because they had to move on with their concocted plan (to get rid of me),” he says. Maphangwa’s suspension has since been set aside, reportedly without a disciplinary hearing taking place. She is back in her position, this time, without Marawa as anchor. “It is a case of - when people say I’ve left, it’s almost as if I made a concerted effort to leave,” Marawa told Weekend Argus. “I was forced into a situation that never made sense. Where people trumped up charges against the producer (Maphangwa). I took a decision, “I took a stand. The fact that she was never in front of a DC (disciplinary committee), shows that those charges never existed. The fact that after they terminated my contract, the producer went back to her job where she currently still is, shows you that it was never about her, but about me. And I am more than willing to take the fall in the face of cowards who parade themselves as managers or bosses or whatever they think their titles are.” The Durban-born presenter had been hosting the slot from Metro FM’s Auckland Park studios for more than a decade. The show quickly grew in popularity, so much so that it went from being a 30-minute show to 60, and eventually an hour-and-a-half long offering. While the SABC is looking for a replacement, the Metro FM website still displays Marawa’s smiling face in their on-air line-up section, promoting his sports show. But Marawa is already working on his next project, promising to divulge more details to his large national fan base soon. “We are trying to get the microphones warmed up so we can do what we love, and do it soon. Radio was never part of my plan, but when radio came around, it literally became a bug. So I am always excited when there’s radio involved. “People are keen to listen to quality, authentic radio, where there’s credibility. And they know my work through the years. And it really is not to try and be popular. I stick the basics of broadcasting. “And I did the best I could to walk away from that experience having gained something,” he said. With football leagues around the world on their season-break, Marawa is also enjoying some time off from his SuperSport TV presenting duties, but has been working his way through a packed events schedule. “Just this week it was the PSL awards on Monday which finished on Tuesday. I went home, packed for Port Elizabeth, woke up two hours later, did the varsity football launch at the University of Johannesburg. After that went to the airport, flew down to Port Elizabeth, did a book launch, came back to Joburg and then it was a series of meetings.” Marawa admits he is excited about the future. “People know the analogy around a shut door and an open door and a revolving door. “Whichever door you want, there is always activity behind a door, whether you shut it or you open it. So that’s what I’ve been busy doing. And there are a lot of exciting prospects. “So whenever I try and get involved in something I like to try and make sure it is the best offering. And not short-change people. I am working on bringing forward a quality product.” Marawa, who has commentated on hundreds of football matches, says he is a Liverpool FC fan. But here’s something you might find difficult to believe - he doesn’t support any of the local soccer teams. Instead, that honour rests with a team in Swaziland called 11 Men in Flight. “Wonderful, long name. Really exciting team. I’ll support them until they stop taking flight,” he laughs.