Sixteen others were injured in the incident inside the stadium perimeter yesterday afternoon. The SA Football Association (Safa) has called for a full investigation, while the Premier Soccer League (PSL) pointed out it was not responsible for the game. The cup is a pre-season friendly and the players on both sides are selected by the fans. While the cause of the stampede is still unknown, it’s believed some fans were trying to force their way into the venue. Many soccer lovers were united in their grief as well as criticism of soccer bosses. It was business as usual on the pitch, with Chiefs running off 1-0 as winners. And even as they lifted the trophy, there was no mention of the tragedy from television presenters and analysts. Safa spokesperson Dominic Chimhavi was one of dozens who questioned why the match had been allowed to continue despite the deaths. He tweeted: “But was this #CarlingCup final supposed to have gone ahead after the loss of life from the stampede. AND RESPECT FOR HUMAN LIFE???” The hastag #stampede became a trending topic on social media. The Kaizer Chiefs official twitter account said: “Our deepest condolences to the families, friends and loved ones of the 2 supporters who lost their lives at the stadium today. We are deeply affected by this incident and we would also like to wish all those injured in the stampede a speedy recovery. “The police and Stadium Management South Africa are working together to investigate the incident. We will endeavour to keep the public informed as we learn of progress on this matter.” By 7.20pm yesterday, there was nothing released by Orlando Pirates regarding the incident. When contacted for comment, PSL spokesperson Luxolo September said: “It’s not a PSL event. It’s a pre-season friendly organised by Carling.” He directed Weekend Argus to the match sponsors. Carling Black Label said in a statement: “We are saddened by the fatalities that occurred. The incident is extremely unfortunate as solid security plans were put in place in conjunction with SAPS and various other stakeholders to ensure that this is a risk-free event.” The police are investigating. Safa president Danny Jordaan said: “We are going to ask for a full report and institute a full investigation on what transpired and the cause for the stampede. I would also like to wish the injured (a) speedy recovery. A football match is supposed to be a place of entertainment, not a death field and what happened at FNB Stadium is very unfortunate.” Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba also extended his condolences. This will bring back painful memories for fans of both teams. In 2001, a stampede at a Soweto derby game at Ellis Park claimed the lives of 43 people. And in 1991 during a pre-season friendly between Chiefs and Pirates in Orkney, 42 fans died during riots.