Members come from all over the Cape Peninsula, including areas like Khayelitsha, Dunoon, Brackenfell and Mitchells Plain. And according to chairman Thobile Ndzube: “If I were to tell you that we have runners from Gauteng, you would not believe me. We are all over.” The club has a rich and perhaps under-publicised history. Its origins date back to 1992. At the time their mission was to “get kids off the streets and also unearth all that talent that seemed to be going to waste”. Back then they had 10 members. Today they are over 800-strong. Twenty-five years ago, the idea of getting everyone - black, white, coloured - running for a township club was the dream of former champion runner Marshall Moiloa. He said: “The aim was also to make this one of the top clubs in the-then Western Province. I can see now that has been achieved.” Moiloa is a former WP 5000m champion and was also part of the 1986 provincial cross country and road running team. Today, the 56-year-old is the head coach at the club. “I still run at least two races a month. It is to keep healthy. When you are running you keep sugar and diabetes out of your system.” The day-to-day functioning of the club is the primary role of Ndzube and much of the club’s success over recent years can be attributed to him. He joined in 2006 as an ordinary runner, was elected chairman a year later, and by 2008 had a main sponsor on the books. It was a steady upward curve from there. Ndzube describes Gugs AC, as they are popularly known, as “more than just a club”. “To me it is such a delight to be associated with such a happy family which has not only stopped within the club, but is seen by many. We continue to grow daily as we are trying to turn running into a more fun-filled way of life. Lizo Bango has been with Gugs AC for five years and is one of their top athletes. He describes himself as the “chief whip” who monitors the performances and results of the runners of the club. “I am the performance manager,” he jokes. Coceka Qomiyana is a runner from Bergvliet. She left K-way VOB athletics club to join Gugulethu in December 2015. She is one of the top female runners at Gugs AC and rated 20th in their overall most valuable mid-year survey. She joined because “all of my friends were running for Gugulethu and when you are not running in the club colours you feel like an outsider”. “Now I know I am like family. After a long run we sit and talk. We share, we help each other. It is not just about running,” she said. The 35-year-old Qomiyana competed in her first Comrades Marathon this year and “with the help of the club I managed to finish and I got a bronze medal”, she said proudly. The club hosts two races annually, both on public holidays - June 16 and December 16. “We have been hosting this race (in June) for the past eight years in honour of Dave Spence who happened to be one of the top coaches in Mzansi. Now you will ask why him? Well, some of our top athletes were coached by him,” says Ndzube. “The December race is now in its 17th year and it takes place on one of the very important dates in our country’s history. We celebrate the reconciliation spirit in our race. Formally this race used to be called the Amy Biehl race. We always encourage people to take part in these races as each falls on very special dates in our country’s calendar.” Ndzube puts Gugs AC’s recipe for success in terms of diversity down to “a simple idea”. “Our goal is to make everyone start running. Thus we make it easily attainable by offering some of the cheapest joining fees without any fine print. The next step is to welcome athletes into a fun-loving, supportive and accommodating family of crazy runners.” He adds: “Everyone running for Gugs is made to feel special within the club by everyone. The colours of Gugs are the only colours that when wearing them you know you are part of a group of fun-loving runners. We bring joy and enjoyment to running. We are a family and we extend that to other clubs.” The club has produced dozens of top runners including Zintle Xiniwe, who is the Western Province’s top woman athlete, Monde Tutani and Makhosonke Fika. “We train on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6pm at NY49 stadium in Gugs. On Tuesdays we are on the road doing 10km and on Thursdays it is speed work on the field. We do long runs at different venues, just like now our runners are preparing for the Cape Town Marathon (in September).” If you are interested in joining contact Thobile Ndzube at 0733182563 or e-mail gndzube@yahoo.com. The joining fee is R250, which includes a running licence for the year and a running vest.