Up until a week ago, his worse-for-wear wooden leg prevented him from participating in any sporting activities. Today, he has two new, state-of-the-art prosthetics, courtesy of the Jumping Kids Fund NPO - one for daily use and one specifically for sport. Aubrey, 11, returned home to Cape Town this week after spending a week in Pretoria where his new artificial limb was created, fitted and tested. The Parkview Primary pupil's first order of business was treating residents of Rotterdam Street in Wesfleur, where he lives, to a performance with his new blade. Aubrey’s back story is every bit as heartbreaking as it is inspiring. He had his left leg amputated below the knee after he was born as a result of his mother being misdiagnosed with cancer while pregnant with him. The medication she received to treat the cancer effectively resulted in Aubrey’s leg not developing completely while in the womb. Doctors decided to amputate below the knee at birth. But Aubrey has never let his disability set him back from enjoying his childhood. Earlier this year, athletics coach Tashwell Adams saw the youngster in action at a nearby running track. Adams noticed that the wear and tear on Aubrey’s 
artificial limb was hampering his progress. Believing that he had a future record-breaking athlete on his hands, Adams sprung into action to find the youngster a new prosthetic. He approached the Jumping Kids organisation for assistance, and the rest of that 
story is now heart-warming history. Adams accompanied Aubrey to the country’s capital city last week. It was also Aubrey’s first time on an aeroplane. “It was tiring because I needed to carry Aubrey everywhere we went, but it was exciting,” said Adams. “We did not have crutches nor a wheelchair and his leg was sore because of the old prosthetic. After the week of measurements and tests it was a relief not to carry him around any more. "With his new blade, Aubrey was kicking the soccer ball pretty well. This laaitie (kid) has real skill.” Aubrey’s artificial limb for everyday use is blue. He told Weekend Argus “it is the colours of Western Province  (rugby team) and I want to play rugby for them one day. "And I also want to run for them.” Aubrey’s running blade is a Spiderman-inspired design. “Spiderman is my favourite superhero," an ecstatic Aubrey said. “I want to climb walls like him.” He also has ambitions of playing football. “Now that I have a new leg, I am going to do everything I want to do.” Since the Weekend Argus first reported on Aubrey in June, there’s been a lot of media interest in the young man from Atlantis. He’s been featured in the town’s newspaper, has made a guest appearance on Heart FM radio, has been interviewed by leading South African magazines, and made his TV debut on Afrikaans programme Kwela. He is also slated to appear on the SABC breakfast television show, Expresso, in the next week. The superhero-in-training has already sounded an early warning to 400m world record holder Wayde van Niekerk and Olympic champion Usain Bolt of Jamaica, after watching videos of them in action. “With my new leg, their records will be in danger,” he said confidently.