Buzani kuBawo is a Xhosa play based on the novel of the same title by WK Tamsanqa. Directed by veteran actress and director Thoko Ntshinga, the play tells the story of a young man named Gugulethu who falls in love and plans to marry his sweetheart, but 
is prevented from following his heart by his parents’ plan for him to marry another woman. Frustrated by his parents’ choice and also committed to the belief he has to respect them, Gugulethu symbolically marries the chosen woman and 
his life takes a turn for the worse. “The story shows the difference between the old and the new. It shows how important it is for parents and children to listen to one another,” Ntshinga said. She said the play was intended to encourage Cape Town audiences to speak and read Xhosa. “There are many Xhosa classics that were written and shelved and we feel the messages that were brought by them are relevant now. “By showcasing this classic, we want to show the difference in the views of the youth to the older generation with particular reference to Xhosa culture, which does not always make sense to the youth when compared to the older generation”, Ntshinga said. Zwelakhe Moni, who plays Gugulethu’s uncle Mthetho, said the story challenged the audience to discern between things that can be changed about a culture and those that cannot. “The writer wants us to know that times change and so should our ways,” he said. Dumisani Siziba, who plays Nyaniso, another of Gugulethu's uncles, said the audience would see that some practices which worked back in the day could not possibly work in modern times. “It’s important to let children make their own choices. Parents cannot choose partners for their children.” The women in the play have a double challenge; trying to maintain happy homes by standing with their husbands while empathising with their children, said Nonceba Yabo, who plays MaNyawuza, mother of NomaMpondomise, who - as Gugulethu’s sweetheart - defies her father and rejects the man chosen for her. She commits suicide when she learns of Gugulethu’s arranged marriage. The play has recently been staged for grade 11 and 12 Xhosa pupils from the greater Cape Town area. It runs until next Saturday.  noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za 