If South Africans marvelled along with the rest of the world, they would have been additionally tantalised by the report of July 21 - “Unforgettable scene as man walks on moon” - describing how “the miracle of television” gave more than 500million people around the world a “ring-side view” of the Apollo 11 landing on Earth’s cosmic satellite. The experience of this historic moment at the southern tip of Africa is captured in the headline, “Cape Town listens - and waits tensely”, because, of course, it could only be followed on the radio. “Peak listening time on the radio extended to all hours of the night and early today as people waited tensely for the touch-down of the landing craft, Eagle, on the moon’s surface at 10.17pm yesterday and the first tread of man on the earth’s dead satellite.” Listening in awe, Cape Town readers had the benefit the next day of masses of news reports, most datelined “Space Center, Houston, Texas”. One of these described the critical moments. “The scenes as man strode the moon’s surface for the first time were unforgettable. Armstrong climbed through the Lem hatch and started backing down a nine-rung ladder. On the second rung from the bottom, he opened a compartment, exposing a television camera. “The picture was black and white and somewhat jerky, but it recorded history. “Among scientists, there was elation that the crew had landed in an area with a variety of rocks - a treasure that held at least the hope of a rich pay-off in the search to learn more about the moon and the earth. “As Armstrong planted his left boot on the powdery surface at 4.36am today, he spoke words that will be remembered for all time: ‘That’s one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind’.” One correspondent took a more writerly stab at capturing the events of July 20, recording that Armstrong and his fellow astronaut Buzz Aldrin “took their first steps on to the moon cautiously, like prudent boys testing the first ice of winter on a country pond”. The report went on: “When first they walked, they walked carefully and slowly, leaning forward, plodding heavily like tired policemen on a beat. “As they acquired confidence, they walked faster, now with a slow bounce in the one-sixth gravity of the moon. And then they ran and their stride was longer than on earth and their shoes seemed suspended above the strange lunar surface, with something of the floating qualities of figures on slow-motion film. “When they were still, they seemed very still, as if frozen, and they leaned forward like puppets to be at a lunar form of attention when the President spoke to them from earth. “All the while, the earth was bright and beautiful above them. In this first incredible day of an incredible new era, one needs to repeat that: the earth was above them.” The moon itself was singled out for closer description. “In the distance, the lunar surface looked pocked and leathery, like the back of a dead alligator. Close up it looked like rubble, like earth levelled roughly after a disaster, dead.” The astronauts appeared to be “ghostlike on the soundless, airless, mostly colourless moon”. “Over the curving horizon, only 1½ miles away on a planet smaller than earth, there was the blackness of space and infinity. The foreground was starkly lighted by the sun and the men and their vehicle cast long shadows. It was dawn on the moon and a dawn in the history of man.” There was every bit as much interest in what might today seem humdrum detail, Armstrong noting: “The surface is fine and powdery. It adheres like charcoal to the soles of my shoes. You go down only about an inch.” It certainly wasn’t humdrum at the time; nobody knew for sure, after all.