Listeners will have a new breakfast show buffet, with popular Ryan O’Connor replaced by two newcomers. Darren "Whackhead" Simpson and Sherlin Barends will debut Kfm Mornings. A "very excited" 
Simpson said "the buzz 
around the building is incredible”. Barends has been “counting down the sleeps like a 6-year-old waiting for their birthday”. They have been preparing since the station’s line-up overhaul was announced last month. “Our main aim here 
is to be entertaining, informative and engaging, the three most important ingredients for a morning radio show,” said Simpson, "creating great radio and having fun, "to be the most listened to breakfast show in the Western Cape.” Heart FM’s breakfast show, hosted by Aden Thomas, is the No 1 morning slot in Cape Town, according to the latest statistics. The station leads overall listenership figures, with a weekly listenership of 755000. Kfm is second with 726000. Smile FM, Good Hope FM and CapeTalk also vie for a share of the listenership pie. Bobby Brown, who has been with Smile FM since its launch in 2013, co-hosts its breakfast show with Lindy Hibbard. “Smile Breakfast is a high-energy show that celebrates our commonalities as South Africans, especially as Capetonians. We mix great recognisable songs with thought-provoking content that is funny and gives one pause for thought,” Brown said. “We involve our listeners in what we do, so every morning we ask ‘what is making you smile today?’ "And every day we get reasons that vary, from the profound 'I’m getting married' or 'becoming a parent' to the everyday 'I’m smiling because it’s a beautiful day' or 'my daughter sang me a song last night'.” “The features that stand out (on the show) are Bekkig, which is a daily, kiddies take on confusing things," he added. "The daily iSmile Report tries to simplify jargonised technology that either already affects our lives, or will do in the very near future.” Hibbard’s feature Everybody’s Talking, which often has stories of people's heart-warming acts of kindness, is a listener favourite. Nigel Pierce fills the breakfast slot at Good Hope FM. He said the success of The Nigel Pierce Show is due to "the energy” created for its audience. “We pack a lot into three hours. We have fun. We’re serious as well. We tackle hard issues at times - the cerebral issues. We can be frivolous, which is a good thing," he said. “People don’t want bad news all the time, so we try and mix it up in the morning.” Pierce is joined on-air by news anchor Sandra Rosenberg, Vicki MacCullum (traffic) and Dalin Oliver (sport). The show is produced by Jason Abels. Pierce added: “We often do a segment called 'I love the show but' and listeners call in and give constructive criticism about the show, features and the team." The show has other popular features, including King of Clubs, Kinky Afro and Pastor Pierce. Another heavy-hitter on the breakfast radio scene is CapeTalk’s Kieno Kammies. The 22-year veteran has hosted the station's morning show for six years. It deals with issues directly affecting listeners. "If it’s interesting we want to know more about it and we want to share it with our audience. Knowledge is power,” he said. Kammies launched a series 18 months ago called #CapeTalkInTheBoardroom. It profiles interesting personalities and highlights the good work being done by Cape Town-grown firms and start-ups. “It’s been an eye-opener and very inspiring,” he said. “There’s a lot that’s negative 
in South Africa at the moment... But we’re determined to help our listeners by looking at potential solutions and best practice around the world. "It’s a challenge. We have to reflect what’s happening in our city, our country and beyond, while also giving listeners a reason to be hopeful.” CapeTalk programming manager Tessa van Staden said there had been an increase in the station's breakfast show listenership. “We’re pleased about the steady growth in CapeTalk’s audience."