 The crooner from Matroosfontein scooped the coveted title last Sunday and became the second consecutive winner from Cape Town, following Richard Stirton. Lucas’s prize includes a R250 0000 recording contract with Universal Music. The Lucas family waited with great anticipation at Cape Town International Airport yesterday and a flight delay did not dampen their spirits. Lucas’s arrival was a closely guarded secret. “Craig told me last night that he was coming home today but he did not tell me what time his flight is landing. We heard on the radio that he was landing at 4pm,” said his proud mother, Jenny Lucas. Neighbours came out in their numbers despite the chilly weather to welcome home their hero. Local publicist Clayton Morar said winners of reality contests and even other contestants were given the necessary grooming and training to manage their careers when the shows end. “Reality shows give an unknown person a great platform to launch themselves into the spotlight but they are also severely scrutinised,” said Morar. Morar’s advice to Lucas was to stay connected with his fans and said this is a great way of thanking them for the votes and continued support in the future. The Voice SA publicist Ingrid Engelbrecht echoed Morar’s sentiments, saying the important thing to do was remain active. Besides the recording contract, Lucas also has the support of the Universal PR machine which will manage him for the duration of his reign. “Craig will have a management team which will guide him as he launches his career,” said Engelbrecht. She was also quick to point out that when artists are not seen or heard, it does not mean that they are not working. “Many artists are successfully working the corporate scene and this is very lucrative for them.” According to 
Engelbrecht, former winner Stirton remains successful. Former contestant Thembeka Mnguni has just returned from a successful tour with Priscilla, Queen of the Desert. Lucas, 24, who holds an honour’s degree in finance, told Weekend Argus he intended to draw on this when the time comes for him to manage his own career. “I gave up my job as a retail planner with Truworths to pursue my music career but I will always have my education to guide me, going forward,” said Lucas. As for his adoring local fans, the wait to see him after taking The Voice SA crown continues as he is not sure exactly when he will be back in the Mother City. “I miss my family but we have already started working on new music so I will just have to wait a little longer to get home,” said Lucas. Engelbrecht also added that producers take a real interests in the artists and that it is also in the best interests of the producers of these shows that contestants and winners alike become successful. Asked about the success rate  the Western Cape has enjoyed in recent reality contests, Engelbrecht added: “it must be something in the water.”