His appearance relates to an alleged sexual assault at an exclusive party for about 20 German nationals at a rented luxury villa on November 26, 2016. Carlo Montanaro, 42, at a July hearing pleaded not guilty to 
raping a 34-year-old German model in one of the villa’s bedrooms. The model and actress, originally from Munich, is represented in South Africa by Topco International Models in Cape Town. A regular visitor to Cape Town for the past six years, Montanaro admitted to sexual intercourse with her, but his attorney Juan Smuts said his client argued that it was consensual. The model told police that during the party, Montanaro had offered her a sip of Champagne and that 15 minutes later she felt dizzy. She asked her boyfriend to take her to a bedroom where she fell asleep after having sex with him. Sprandel said she had been woken by a stranger with a belly ring who kissed and penetrated 
her without her permission. She told police that she had been unable to move or scream. She identified the stranger as Montanaro and said he left after her boyfriend entered the room and confronted him. The party had been hosted by German Cape Town resident Stephan Dau at a Kenmore Street villa. Originally from Berlin, Dau’s Facebook page says he is chief executive officer at World of Festivals and linked to a party event called The Grand White. After being asked to go to the Cape Town police’s sexual offences unit on the Monday following the Saturday party, Montanaro handed himself over in the presence of Smuts, who negotiated his bail conditions. He was released on R3 000 bail after surrendering his passport and agreeing to report to police twice a week. Witnesses for both the defence and prosecution are mainly party guests. A twist in the case is a witness intimidation charge laid by the accused at Sea Point Police Station last month. Montanaro alleged that a woman party guest stopped co-operating with his defence against the complainant’s boyfriend and State witness, Rony Vogel, after allegedly being intimidated by the model’s boyfriend last month. In spite of WhatsApp evidence of the verbal intimidation, Smuts said, the investigating officer failed to obtain a statement from the witness. “He phoned her and stopped investigating after she told him that she wasn’t being intimidated,” said Smuts. The State has since closed that particular case. “The matter should have been referred to the National Director of Prosecutions and not closed 
by a prosecutor linked to the 
prosecution of my client,” said Smuts.