Tsidi Ramafolo knows the trauma of rape. She lives it every day. The fashion designer and businesswoman, 38, escaped two sexual assaults at age three and four and was raped by a cousin at 15.Today, Ramafolo struggles to hold back tears when she recounts her ordeals. All I knew was they were meant to be my protectors and they were not supposed to touch me that way. But they did, she said.Three-year-old Ramafolo was playing in the living room of her Free State home when her brother s 18-year-old friend visited. He was a constant presence in the Ramafolo household. My mother had stepped out of the room for a moment, at the time I was sitting on his lap, suddenly I felt his hands fidgeting below his belt and I froze until I felt something warm along my backside. Something inside of me said jump and run and that is what I did. He tried again when she was four.Ramafolo never told her family but had buried the incident inside but even as a child, I knew that what he was doing was wrong .When she was a shy and timid 15-year-old her cousin pinned her down and violated her. My mind still refuses to go to that place. I remember being in the kitchen with my cousin while I waited for his sister. &quot;He was an angry, troublesome boy who at some point had run-ins with the law. He called me to his bedroom under the guise that he had something he wanted to show me. With no reason not to trust her cousin, she went to the bedroom. As soon as I entered the room, he pushed me onto the bed and managed to pin my hands down behind me and he penetrated me. Everything happened so fast and all I can remember thinking was that this was wrong and I was trying to claw my way out from under him but he was so much bigger than me. I remember the force, the brutality and the pain, said a tearful Ramafolo.She believes the men who violated her may have done so because they probably sensed I was an easy target because I was a loner, I always kept to myself and was very shy. I believe these acts were a sense of entitlement and a power trip of some sort . However, she also believes society owes the perpetrators an opportunity. We need to understand how we can rehabilitate the perpetrator because he is also damaged, violating women in such a way because he was violated himself. Ramafolo said she believed forgiveness can only come through dialogue, the perpetrator needs to own the violation and show remorse and only through that dialogue can the victim or survivor begin to holistically heal . I have let the anger go, I have let him (her cousin) go, I have been carrying him with me for so long that I have decided to now put him down. I can no longer carry the burden of the pain. The other guy has since passed away. More than 20 children have been murdered and, in some cases, raped by men they knew and trusted since the beginning of the year. Unlike them, Ramafolo has lived to tell her tale.According to Childline deputy director Cheryl Morilly, Research has indicated that 90% of child victims know the perpetrator. All the more reason why children should be encouraged to speak to a trusted parent or teacher if they feel uncomfortable with any adult, even if it is someone they know and love. [email&#160;protected]Weekend Argus