His story is not one of rags to riches, but rather one of perseverance, hard work and the will to succeed against the odds. But dancing wasn’t always his first love - that was soccer. “I started playing soccer when I was 6 years old. I played for Stephanian Ottery Football Club, up until I was 13 years old and then moved to Ambassadors Football Club.” He also played Western Province cricket and soccer. His very first taste of dancing started when he was with a B-Boy in Delft. “They started teaching me how to do handstands and other tricks,” said Adriaanse. He also started dancing with his friends at school and often performed with them during assemblies with no formal training. As he got older the dancing bug hit him intensely. At the time, Adriaanse worked as a delivery pizza boy, modelled for Ice Model Management and danced for group called the Brooklyn Brotherhood. In 2013, he went to Johannesburg to participate in the solo battles and after he won, he got his first tattoo - it said “Humble”. “I didn’t want to be put on a pedestal because of my achievement.” He left Johannesburg, but made up his mind that in 2014 he would return because he was serious about pursuing his career in dance. But life wasn’t easy. When he moved to Johannesburg he slept on a blow-up mattress for six months. He got at a dance studio and after negotiations, he was also able to do private gigs. His big break came after he recorded his first video with fellow dancer, Robyn Brophy. The video, shot in a documentary style, is seven minutes long and showcases the challenges dancers face. As a result of this video, which showcased his dance abilities, he was cast as a dancer in an Elvis tribute show presented by Showtime Australia in 2015. “A friend referred me, they called me and I didn’t even audition. I had two days to learn the whole show. But I was 100% ready.” That show ran for about three weeks in Johannesburg. He was also cast as a dancer in Showtime Australia’s, The Michael Jackson History Show as well as in The Greatest Love of All, The Whitney Houston Show in 2015. The Whitney Houston Show is at Artscape. In spite of his success, Adriaanse has been battling a genetic eye disease called vitelliform macular dystrophy or Best's disease. For many years his sight was limited to tunnel vision and couldn’t see further than his extended hand. His vision started deteriorating three years ago. He visited his doctor and was diagnosed with the disease. But Adriaanse continued to dance and was able to navigate through his routines and life in general despite the obstacle. He has had laser surgery since and now has full vision in his right eye and 75-80% vision in his left eye. Adriaanse has a heavy line-up, which includes tours to Canada, the US and the UK, before returning to Cape Town at the end of the year. His advice to other aspiring dancers is to work hard. He said he wasn’t a good dancer when he started, but he worked hard and persevered in spite of the pain. “Remember that anything in life is possible. It doesn’t matter where you start, it is where you end up,” said Adriaanse.