The American Pie beauty, who now calls Cape Town home, said the universe told her to pack up her New York City apartment last year and head to the southern tip of Africa to continue working on her charity, Animal Avengers. Elizabeth established the organisation in Los Angeles in 2001, and ran it as a dog and cat rescue centre for a decade. In 2015, she decided to use the organisation as a platform to create awareness about animals facing extinction. It was after watching a “horrific” poaching video of an elephant that she decided to redirect her focus to animals in danger in Africa. “It touched me more than anything because she was still alive, still moving,” said Elizabeth. A report released last week by the Department of Environmental Affairs on the latest rhino poaching statistics showed 529 rhinos had been killed in South Africa since January. Elizabeth told Weekend Argus she believes that for every rhino killed there was a knock-on effect. “When you take one rhino out of the breeding stock and kill them, they might be pregnant at the time, so you’re removing a baby and any potential future pregnancies.” She said poaching syndicates were well-funded organisations that ran with military precision, but those at the lowest levels of the operation often didn’t want to be poachers in the first place. “It’s easy money for them, so if they take the money and they’re able to feed their family for a month. They look to poaching as a quick fix,” said Elizabeth. She believes one of the best ways to curb poaching and poaching syndicates is to build a community around a game reserve so the people are not driven to the crime to support their families. “Helping the animals is helping the people,” the actress said, adding that by creating a sustainable tourism industry and creating business opportunities for communities, they are better able to help sustain wildlife. She’s been particularly encouraged by the recent opening of a regional court at Skukuza, the administrative headquarters of the Kruger National Park, by Minister of Water and Environmental Affairs Edna Molewa. Elizabeth believes this will help to strengthen the legal fight against poachers and will also help to tighten the prosecution for the long-term. “I love that Edna Molewa opened the court in Skukuza.” She said more regional courts need to be opened across the country and the message needs to be sent that poaching isn’t worth the risk. The people who work in the field gathering the evidence also need more support. While animal activism remains Elizabeth’s core focus, she said she hadn’t given up on her acting career. “My acting was given to me as a platform and as a job but my purpose is with the animals,” she said, hinting she is still actively going through scripts and looking for opportunities to get behind the camera with directing and producing. Elizabeth has also made a name for herself as a prominent celebrity poker player and has used some of the winnings as donations for Animal Avengers. “You would go on a show and they would donate money to your charity, so the only reason I played was for charity.” Through Animal Avengers she has been able to help fund Tokkie Botes - the only independent helicopter pilot allowed to fly over the Kruger National Park - by buying him critical night vision equipment. “I saw him and I needed to support him, he touched me,” said Elizabeth. Education and awareness are key to helping the fight, said Elizabeth, adding that by decreasing the demand for ivory through knowledge of what’s going on, this contributes to long-term success. “Education is so important for people. We need to change the cultural, societal and media mindset.” But she’s not in it for the accolades or adulation; for Elizabeth, it’s all about finding a way to advance the animal conservation cause. “I don’t care if you help me or other charities. Poaching is something that’s very serious and needs to be eliminated.”