RESTAURANT and club owners have welcomed a raid by police on popular night-club district, Long Street, on Friday night. This, after a small army of police invaded the busy street in an operation that went on until the early hours of this morning. Heavily-armed police stormed the popular strip, blocking roads and access to clubs, as they conducted raids at various establishments - while a police helicopter hovered above.  Patrons took to social media to first question the presence of the helicopter, and then that of huge police presence.     Police have been tight-lipped on details of the operation and whether there were any arrests or contraband confiscated from the establishments that were searched. In response to questions by Weekend Argus as to what prompted the raid, Western Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, said police action is not done at random, but rather informed by crime patterns and intelligence at hand. Jula wouldn’t be drawn into divulging whether the raids would be an ongoing occurrence as it would tip off perpetrators. “As the SAPS in the province we remain committed to ensuring that people within the Western Cape feel safe,” he said. However, it's believed that the raid was in response to the spate of shootings around clubs in and around the CBD in recent months, which have been linked to an alleged underworld turf-war for control of the nightclub security industry. This year alone, several shooting incidents have been linked to feuds between suspected gang bosses - said to be fighting for piece of the action. Speaking to the Weekend Argus, a few managers and owners of clubs in Long Street - who asked not to be identified due to fears of the recent violence - said the increased police presence was welcomed. “There were some disturbances with the police last night having blocked the roads and searching people as they came in and out of the clubs but I say that is a minor price to pay in order for our patrons to feel safe,” a manager at one of the clubs said. Loucia Ingeni, a manager at the Buena Vista Café, said although restaurants situated in Long Street are not directly affected by what prompted the raid, customers often stay away out of safety concerns. “Long Street has become notorious for being a place where bad things happen and being a restaurant, we are not all that affected by it but our customers sense of security when coming here is important,” she said. “It was nice for us to see things moving in this direction, people are sometimes too scared to come out to Long Street but such action from police is welcome. We would like for it to become a monthly thing, make everyone feel secure.”