Weekend Argus spoke to a few Cape Town-based runners about their running journey, and why they’ve chosen to run the Comrades Marathon.  LATASHA SIDONE, 41, Nedbank Running Club Western Cape, Comrades finishes - 2: “I run Comrades because it gives me a feeling of accomplishment, the feeling that I can do anything that I set my mind to. "Physically and especially mentally, it pushes me beyond my own boundaries. The race has taught me that what you put in, you will get out. If you put in the time pre-Comrades, you will definitely be rewarded. I have also learnt that on race day, patience is key. Take it easy in the beginning so that you have enough to give at the end. I am hoping to finish in under 11 hours.”  NCEBA MABULU, 28, Gugulethu Athletic Club,Comrades finishes - 0: “I never thought I would run Comrades in my life but with the amount of running I have been doing, I began to like the idea of such a big challenge. This will be my first Comrades. I am physically and mentally ready. I am confident about all the training I have done, especially the hill training because this is an up-run. I am going there to finish the race, I would like to do so under 10 hours.”  LEBO MATHATHO, 35, Fat Cats Athletic Club, Comrades finishes - 1: “I am one of 22 Fat Cat female runners throughout the country who will be running to raise funds for disadvantaged schools. For every kilometre I run, I will raise R5 towards the club’s corporate social investment programme. "Personally, I run Comrades to test my limits. I want to see how far my strength can go. The race is one of those bucket list items I have always wanted to tick. I want to cut 30 minutes from my previous finishing time.”  ZISIWE MNOTHOZA, 34, In Touch Athletic Club,Comrades finishes - 0: “I have been running since 2013 but I was just running casually, only doing what I considered nice races. At the beginning of this year, I increased my training and followed a Team Just Run programme with the intention to run Comrades. I am doing this out of curiosity, I want to see if my body can handle the challenge. I have no target time in mind, I am just looking forward to my first Comrades.”  ALICIA CLARKE, 35, Ommiedraai Friends Athletic Club, Comrades finishes - 0: “Running Comrades has always been a personal goal. Initially I wanted to run it at the age of 19. "My decision to do it this year, stemmed from watching it on TV last year, and I just made a decision that I really want to realise my dream and make it a personal goal to run the 2017 Comrades. Running has taught me that if you want something, you have to be self-disciplined. Also, running is my outlet, which has also become a way of life. If I don’t run, I get withdrawal symptoms. I am hoping to finish the race between 10 and 10-and-a-half hours.”  LEBOHANG MOTASI, 40,  Airports Athletic Club Cape Town, Comrades finishes - 2: “I am a Runner for the Freedom of Palestine. This is a human justice cause I support actively on the road. As a South African, I know what being denied freedom to be can result in, and also the immense possibilities political freedom brings. "I also run to feed my ego and to see what’s next. This will be my third Comrades. I trust the Team Just Run training programme I have been following since December. This race is about physical and mental strength, I am confident about both. It is all about delivery now. I am hoping to finish under nine hours.”