The race starts in Durban on June 4, and is an extreme test of a runner’s physical and mental stamina. Ramadaan, which will be observed until around June 24, is a significant time of prayer and fasting for Muslims. The Comrades requires intense physical training with significant amounts of food needed to support the body, which makes it nearly impossible for runners who are fasting to compete as they’re unable to eat. Cape Town running clubs which have previously  sent numbers of runners to the race only have a handful attending this year. Although disappointed, there are no hard feelings among those who will be staying behind. Nabielah Davids, a coach and executive member at Top Form Athletic Club, said 11 of their members were participating this year. “This would have been my eighth run. I am very excited for my teammates who are going to Durban. It is a special race,” she said. “I am satisfied to sit out a few years. My faith and religious conviction is an important part of my life so, I am completely at ease with not participating for a few years. I will support and assist my  teammates who are going,” Davids said. Ommiedraai Friends Athletic Club has three of its members set to line up at the start of the race from Durban to Pietermaritzburg. Spokesperson Fadl Salie said there was a sense of ‘FOMO’ (fear of missing out) among members. “In general, the runners feel a sense of FOMO and maybe disappointment. At the same time a sense of relief for the break,” he said. He added that not participating in Comrades due to the fast means that they will not have to endure intense training. Instead, they’ll have time for rest. “Our runners are very religious and will respect the month. No doubt they will be glued to the television on race day,” Salie said adding “it would be great if Comrades reshuffled the dates”. The president of Central Athletics Club, Adnaan Mohamed, said the club had 80 runners participating in the race last year, compared to the three who will compete this year. “Comrades is the highlight of the year for most of our members. Unfortunately this year it falls in the month of Ramadaan. Muslim runners are obviously disappointed,” he said. “Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do about it. The Comrades Marathon Association however, should have taken this into account when they planned the race,”Mohamed said. The race starts in Durban and ends in Pietermaritzburg, covering a distance of 86.73km. The gun signalling the start of the race, that began with a handful of runners in 1921, goes off at 5.30am and the finish is at 5.30pm. A total of 20000 runners have registered but this number does not necessarily reflect the number of runners who will start the race as some participants pull out due to injury and other reasons. The 2015 champion of the women’s race, Caroline Wostmann withdrew this week on the advice of her medical team following an injury.  noloyiso.mtembu@inl.co.za  WEEKEND ARGUS