Now Dubai-based band, 4 The Music, comprising Atlantis-born brothers John (bass guitar) and Elton Frans (drums), and former Durbanite and lead singer Jabu Magagula, are heading back to the Mother City during the month of Ramadaan after enthralling audiences with performances in Djibouti, Moscow, Bahrain, Qatar, Abu Dhabi and Germany. Speaking to Weekend Argus ahead of their trip home, the band - who have been performing together since 2009 - said their passion for music had been the secret behind their continued success. Magagula, 50, said she’d always dreamed of being a singer. “For me, my musical influences were Whitney Houston, like so many great singers today. My first time on a big stage, I was singing The Greatest Love Of All (by) Anita Baker. Aretha Franklin also influenced me a lot and then locally, Brenda Fassie.” There is a family-like connection between the trio, who said “we’re like brothers and sister” - despite the age-gap. Elton is 39 and Peter-John 36. “Working with PJ and Elton, I get spoiled so much by these humble brothers. I always say their mother did a great job raising them,” said Magagula. The brothers have been performing on and off in Madinat Jumeirah in Dubai since 2006. During that time they spent a year in the Qatari capital of Doha, providing the music in the jazz club at the Oryx Rotana Hotel. But it’s Dubai they speak of with the most fondness. They’ve rubbed shoulders with a number of celebrities in the emirate, including the South African cricket team “with whom we spent a few days”. “They came to our bar and loved our music. Morne and Albie Morkel and AB de Villiers and their wives, such humble people. We also met Don Johnson, Apl.de.ap (real name Allan Pineda Lindo) from Black Eyed Peas, Neyo and our own Freshlyground,” they said in unison. They’ve amassed a number of big performances as well. They’ve appeared on stage alongside The Wailers, Boney M, Bjorn Again and, most recently, Billy Ocean. However, as far as career highlights go, the recent release of their debut single, Mzansi, reigns supreme. The song and music video have been so well received, they have already scooped a top award. Mzansi was recently named best world beat by Los Angeles-based awards organisation Akademia. The band will go to Los Angeles in April next year to collect their award at a ceremony where they’re hoping their single will be chosen as song of the year. “Mzansi has quite an interesting back story. We wrote the song in a few hours. We wanted the whole world to enjoy the beat in spite of it being in Xhosa and Zulu - as this was what we were aiming for,” Elton said. “The song is describing what is happening in South Africa with corruption and xenophobia, etc, and that the change will come soon,” Magagula added. The Frans brothers began their careers as children performing in church in Atlantis, with musical influences like Boys II Men, New Addition, Dru Hill and Az Yet cementing their love for music. “I was a typical '90s guy,” said Elton. “In the gospel scene, it was definitely the Wynans brothers, Fred Hammond and Take 6.” Peter-John agreed. “Elton and I lived in one house, so I had to listen to whatever was played. All of those artists had a great influence on my life and music.” Magagula recalled how her love of music had been inspired by her late dad. “I heard from my mum that I took after my late dad, because he used to sing in the '60s with a group and enter competitions. And I was also so lucky to have a music teacher who recognised my talent and encouraged me. I joined a gospel group while I was in Durban, got some voice training from there. Then later left Durban for Jozi and later Dubai.” The band are passionate about South Africa’s youth and young people following their passion. Elton’s words of wisdom: “Work hard to achieve your dream. The sky is the limit. Never take no for an answer." Peter-John added: “Don’t try to fit in, peer pressure is just a phase. Respect and work on your parents’ vision before yours. Trust God in all you do.” Check out the Mzansi music video at: www.youtube.com/watch?v=GJyZhmRNU80.